The Official Printelect Blog



The Official Printelect Blog
Your Elections Partner





Printelect Headquarters makes it through Hurricane Irene unscathed
August 29th, 2011 



Hurricane Irene tore its way across the Eastern Seaboard over the weekend, making landfall at Cape Lookout, NC. The storm caused extensive damage to the eastern/middle regions of the state, including leaving thousands without power, before making its way north.
Our new headquarters, in New Bern, was directly in the path of Irene. A major part of last week was spent preparing the building for the worst-case scenarios that the storm presented. Utilizing hundreds of square feet of tarp, our staff covered all of our printing / finishing equipment, computers, and paper inventory. The Printelect IT team did everything necessary to ensure security and preservation of our data, as well as our technological systems.
Thanks to everyone’s participation, one of the worst storms to hit New Bern in decades was withstood by the new building. Save some minor leakage, there was no consequential damage sustained. Power was lost, but returned by Sunday evening.

The Printelect office is up and running, and business as usual has resumed, as of Monday morning. Some of the Printelect team are dealing with their own issues at their homes. Many are without power, and some without water. Hopefully, all will be resolved soon, and we can put Irene behind us.
Thanks you to all that were concerned for us over the weekend. Our hearts go out to the families of the 27 people who lost their lives in the wake of the storm, as well as those who are still dealing with the aftermath of such a natural disaster.

















Tags: disaster, election, hurricane irene, printelect, Voting Posted in Company News, General Information |   1 Comment »


East Coast earthquake rattles primaries in Virginia
August 25th, 2011 

This article was originally published by ElectionOnline. To read the original article, please click here. We’re glad that everyone remained unharmed during the East Coast earthquake on election day!
East Coast earthquake rattles primaries in Virginia
Despite rumbling, voting continues
By M. Mindy Moretti
Voters in several Virginia counties headed to the polls on Tuesday under sunny, late-summer skies. Primary day 2011 seemed to be going along as normal for an August primary until about nine minutes before 2pm when the ground started to shake, rattle and roll.
The East Coast experienced a rare magnitude 5.8 earthquake at 1:51 p.m. on Tuesday. The epicenter of the quake was located in Mineral, Va.
Although some poll workers had to create makeshift voting precincts outside in the shade, voting never stopped throughout the state and polls remained open until their normal closing time of 7p.m.
In Louisa County, where the epicenter of the earthquake was located, Cristy Watkins, registrar of voters, said things went extremely well considering the circumstances.
Watkins said voting was never disrupted and while some voting booths were moved outside out of concern, polling places were able to run on generators or super-long extension cords.
With phone lines overwhelmed in the minutes following the quake, deputy registrars fanned out to the six affected polling places to check on poll workers and voters.
The county elections office was moved to the county’s emergency operations command center and the county’s IT department provided laptops to the elections officials.
“It was a real sense of community,” Watkins said. “Everyone pulled together and everyone in our office kept a real cool attitude.”
The Stafford County fire marshal inspected all 27 of the counties polling sites shortly after the quake and deemed them all safe and voting continued even though some of the polling place hosts tried to shut-down operations.
“We said no, we don’t do that on election day,” Registrar Greg Riddlemoser told The Freelance Star.”I’m very, very proud of the response of the precinct workers. Nobody really thinks that you’re going to have an earthquake on election day. I’m very pleased with the calm nature and the business mentality” of the poll officials.
Election officials throughout the affected counties seemed to take the historic (for the East Coast) event in stride.
About an hour after the earthquake, City of Falls Church Registrar Dave Bjerke quipped on Facebook, “Falls Church will not be suppressed. Outside the polls voting!”
In Arlington County where voting continued throughout, Registrar Linda Lindberg told a local website that the only people who called to keep the polls open later than the 7 p.m. closing time were the candidates themselves.
It was largely business as usual for Fairfax County, one of the state’s largest and most populated counties. A number of polling places were evacuated when the earthquake happened so they could assess if there was structural damage and all facilities that were evacuated set up in the parking lot with the voting machines running on battery power.
According to Edgardo Cortes, registrar, most facilities were cleared within an hour or two although one polling place did suffer structural damage so they remained outside through the close of polls at 7pm.  The registrar’s office worked with the school to run electricity outside.  All 232 polling places remained open for voting until the regular close of polls.
Operations in the county elections office were not affected by the earthquake although Cortes noted that they definitely felt the tremors.
“While our emergency plans contemplate blizzards, hurricanes, and even terrorist attacks, earthquakes weren’t really on our list of issues to plan for,” Cortes said. “I think our staff and election officers in the field performed incredibly well and ensured that we continued voting the entire day without more than a few minutes of interruption.”

Tags: Election Day Supplies, Interesting Articles, Mobile Voting Precinct Posted in Interesting News Articles |   No Comments »


Mobile Voting Precinct in Action Tomorrow!
August 22nd, 2011 


MEDIA ADVISORY
FOR IMMEDIATE	August 22nd, 2011
RELEASE:
CONTACT:		Chris Andrews ● 919-208-3926 ● chrisandrews@printelect.com
Fairfax County, Virginia to Utilize Unprecedented Mobile Voting Precinct from National Elections Product and Service Provider Printelect in Tuesday’s Primary
WHAT: 	Media interviews and photo opportunities of Printelect’s 38-foot Mobile Voting Precinct (MVP) in use by Fairfax County, Virginia
WHEN: 	August 23rd ● 8:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m.
The MVP will be in Fairfax County, Virginia for the day. Please contact Chris Andrews in advance at (919)-208-3926 to arrange an interview and/or schedule a photo opportunity.
WHERE: 	Vienna Community Center
120 Cherry St, SE
Vienna, VA 22180
The Fairfax County Elections Department has partnered with national elections product and service provider Printelect, to utilize its Mobile Voting Precinct (MVP) for Tuesday, August 23rd‘s primary election. This is the first-ever use of the MVP in an election and part of a growing trend of unique voting precinct solutions. The unit will be stationed at the Vienna Precinct in Alexandria, Virginia all day on Tuesday.
This unrivaled 38-foot vehicle was incepted to provide portable capabilities that will enable local election officials to bring the vote to the people in communities across the country, and help solve some of the crucial issues that arise in election jurisdictions across the country.
The MVP features 15 voting stations, a spacious two-person registration desk, efficient traffic-flow design and ballot box placement, and full compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). Such a vehicle has never before been offered for use in the elections industry.
“We have researched and developed the MVP to be an Election Day problem-solver for our customers,” said Owen D. Andrews, President/CEO of Printelect. “Its versatility and mobility can help election officials throughout the nation to alleviate lines, improve voter education efforts increase voter registration capabilities, and solve many of the problems that occur before, during and after polling place hours.”
For more information on Printelect, please visit www.printelect.com. To learn more about the MVP, please visit http://www.printelectMVP.com and for information on the Fairfax County Elections Department and Tuesday’s election, please visit http://www.fairfaxcounty.gov/eb/.
###

Tags: election, government, Mobile Voting Precinct, primary election, printelect, virginia, vote, Voting Posted in Uncategorized |   No Comments »


Stuck on you: Voter’s Approve of “I Voted” Stickers
August 16th, 2011 

Stuck on you
Voters approve of “I Voted” stickers
By M. Mindy Moretti
Whether Democrat, Republican, Green or Independent, male or female, young or old, for or against a proposition, one thing for which most voters seem to have a common affection is the “I Voted” sticker they receive after casting a ballot.
Although not nearly as iconic as a purple stained finger, ―I Voted‖ stickers invoke a certain passion in voters; though where this passion for a temporary piece of paper comes from is a bit hard to pinpoint.
“My best guess — and it is only a guess — is that it relates to civic duty.  Voting is considered a civic duty even by some of those who do not vote. The census reports on voter turnout caution their numbers may be high because a significant number of non-voters say they voted rather than admit they neglected their duty.  So my best answer is that some voters want to let the world know that they performed their duty,” explained Dr. Richard Smolka, professor emeritus at The American University and founder of Election Administration Reports.
The history of the “I Voted” sticker is a bit hazy, but some elections historians point to the 1980s as the possible timeline for their introduction and one company online claims that they created the original “I Voted” stickers in 1986.
According to Alex Keyssar, the Mathew W. Stirling, Jr. professor of history and social policy at the Harvard Kennedy School, as far back as the 19th Century people used to stay in the polling places for hours after they had already voted—thus proving to everyone that they had cast their ballot.
And “I Voted” stickers aren’t just used to let the world know that a voter has cast their ballot. In some places the stickers are a gateway to lots of free stuff. Many businesses give away free food and drink to voters sporting an “I Voted” sticker on election-day.
The Ohio secretary of state’s office recently held a contest to design a new ―I Voted‖ sticker to be distributed to the state’s 88 counties. Nearly 60,000 Buckeyes cast their ballot for their sticker of choice and the winning sticker was a play on “I Love Voting” with an outline of the state of Ohio replacing the traditional heart.
“While voting is serious business, selecting our state’s next “I Voted Today” sticker provided an outreach opportunity to get both younger and older Ohioans excited about the voting process, Secretary of State Jon Husted said in a statement when the results were announced. “The Election Day sticker is worn as a badge of honor by many and I wanted Ohioans to have the chance to voice their opinion and help pick our new design.”
The stickers will first be distributed for the November 2011 election. According to the secretary of state’s office, for the 2010 general election, the state issued 4.2 million stickers at a cost of approximately $29,000. The secretary of state’s office has looked at ways to bring down the overall printing costs for the office, but determined that it would continue to provide the voting stickers because “it’s a tradition that promotes civic engagement at a relatively small price.”
“Why are people excited about getting their “I Voted Today” sticker? It’s funny, I’ve talked to some board of elections members and poll workers who have said it would make their job harder if we didn’t have the sticker,” said Maggie Ostrowski a spokesperson for the secretary of state’s office. “Voters in Ohio definitely ask for them when they finish voting. They wear them as a badge of honor on Election Day that they exercised their right to vote and participated in our democracy. It’s a small gesture, but it means a lot to them to wear it proudly and see fellow citizens wearing them too.”
While the state of Ohio is spending creating contests and spending money on stickers, for some localities with tight budgets cutting the ―I Voted‖ stickers seems like the first logical step.
When releasing its 2012 elections budget, the D.C. Board of Elections and Ethics proposed the distribution of the “I Voted” stickers and Internet commentators were none-too-pleased.
Morris County, NJ recently eliminated the distribution of “I Voted” stickers in an effort to save the county approximately $800 per year.
“We thought it was a nice thing to do, so people would feel good about voting. But we can’t afford them,” John Sette, chairman of the county’s board of elections told The Star-Ledger. The county had been distributing the stickers for about five years.
While some counties may be cutting “I Voted” stickers, others are going out of their way to provide them to voters — even if those voters cast their ballot by mail.
Pierce County, Wash., which fought becoming a vote-by-mail county till the bitter end, will still provide “I Voted” stickers to county voters. In the official Pierce County voter’s guide, Pierce County Auditor Julie Anderson wrote:
“We know you love the “I Voted” sticker. Thousands wear it proudly, as a reminder to others. Well, we’ve found a way to include the stickers in your Voters’ Pamphlet. And this way, you can wear “I Voted” at any time during the election period. In fact, we hope you will. Pierce County voter participation is the lowest in the state. Help us remind everyone of this important civic duty.”
Source

Tags: Election Day Supplies, i voted sticker, Interesting Articles, printelect Posted in Featured Products, Interesting News Articles |   No Comments »


More states move to adopt military and overseas voting legislation in 2011 Legislatures rally bipartisan support for troops
August 2nd, 2011 


This article was originally published in the electionlineWeekly found here.
Original Article Begins:
More states move to adopt military and overseas voting legislation in 2011 Legislatures rally bipartisan support for troops
By Stacie Temple and Matthew Morse
Earlier this month, we celebrated our nation’s independence with fireworks, parades and picnics.  While many legislatures set off their own fireworks this year along party lines about issues ranging from budget to redistricting to voter identification, legislators rallied the troops in many states with widespread bipartisan support for military and overseas voting legislation.
Much of this legislation was in response to the 2009 federal Military and Overseas Voter Empowerment (MOVE) Act, which was in effect for the first time during the November 2010 election. Some of the MOVE Act’s key provisions include: sending absentee ballots to voters at least 45 days in advance of federal elections; allowing for electronic transmission of voting materials to voters; eliminating notary requirements; and expanding the use of the Federal Write-in Absentee Ballot (FWAB), a backup ballot for those who do not receive a full ballot in time, to all federal elections.
In 2010 many states hurried to pass legislation to meet these requirements; however some failed to fully comply and played ―catch up during the 2011 legislative session. And several states not only complied with the MOVE Act, but expanded some of the protections to further enfranchise military and civilian voters abroad—and at home in at least one instance.
In South Carolina, the legislature passed a law (S404) that requires ballots for  all elections, not just federal elections, to be sent electronically (at the voter’s request) 45 days in advance.  Plus, the new law expands acceptance of the FWAB for all elections and removes the witness requirement for military and overseas absentee ballots.
And in Texas, the legislature enacted SB100, which expands several MOVE Act provisions to many state and local elections, changes the date for federal run-off elections and extends all of the law’s protections to military voters who are absent from their county of residence but within the United States since they often face similar challenges to casting ballots that will be counted.
Additionally, the Uniform Law Commission’s Uniform Military and Overseas Voters Act (UMOVA), a model act that would harmonize state election codes by removing further obstacles, adding more protections and extending key MOVE Act provisions to state and local elections, was on the table in several states.
The Pew Center on the States along with the Alliance for Military and Overseas Voting Rights, the Uniform Law Commission, the Federal Voting Assistance Program and the Department of Defense- State Liaison Office supported and encouraged MOVE Act compliance and UMOVA efforts across the nation. Six states adopted UMOVA in 2011: Colorado, Nevada, North Carolina, North Dakota, Oklahoma and Utah. Of special interest is North Carolina, which has one of the high est active duty military populations in the nation (ranks 5 th) and is the first state among those ranking in the top third to adopt UMOVA. Another six states introduced UMOVA.
As of June 24, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures (NCSL), legislatures in 17 states enacted MOVE-related legislation. Since that time, bills were also enacted in at least three additional states. NCSL also notes that in several states primary dates were shifted to better accommodate sending absentee ballots out at least 45 days prior to an election.
Ensuring that military and overseas voters are not disenfranchised is an ongoing challenge and responsibility for legislatures and election officials alike.  While work remains, it is encouraging that many states took meaningful steps in 2011 to address the concerns that President Harry S. Truman voiced more than 50 years ago when he stated, “At a time when thes e young people are defending our country and its free institutions, the least we at home can do is to make sure that they are able to enjoy the rights they are being ask ed to fight to preserve.”
For more information on military and overseas voting, visit www.pewcenteronthestates.org/elections


 Posted in Interesting News Articles |   No Comments »


Longtime voters honored with induction into Pennsylvania Voter Hall of Fame
August 1st, 2011 

Pennsylvania Voter Hall of Fame inducted it’s newest members in July 2011. For a link to the original article, please click here.
Article Begins:
Joseph D. Lewis Sr., 77, of Mahanoy City, registered to vote 56 years ago, after serving in the Navy.
“I served my country and I thought I deserved the privilege to vote,” Lewis said Tuesday. “I always voted the way I wanted and I always voted for the person I thought would be best for the country.”
Lewis was one of more than 700 Schuylkill County residents eligible for induction into the Pennsylvania Voter Hall of Fame for voting in 50 consecutive General Elections, and 170 of those residents attended a celebration Tuesday honoring those voters.
Secretary of the Commonwealth Carol Aichele, the state’s chief election official, delivered the keynote address during the ceremony at D.H.H. Lengel Middle School auditorium, Pottsville.
“President Lincoln said 148 years ago at Gettysburg, we have a government ‘of the people, by the people, for the people,’ ” Aichele said. “Voting is the most basic means by which we, the people, keep control of our government. (Voting) is a right so dear that people around the world have left everything to come to America to have that right. There is nothing more fundamental that voting.”
Aichele told the crowd that many of their fellow Americans have forgotten how important voting is.
“Fortunately, you have never forgotten how important it is to vote and you were never too busy to vote,” she said. “You are the best example to your children and grandchildren of being a good citizen.”
The First Brigade Band, led by Leslie Kraft, played while the honorees were greeted and shown to their seats.
As a color guard entered the auditorium, Zavry Jones, Mill Creek, sang the national anthem, followed by the Pledge of Allegiance led by Angelo “Abe” Barrone, Pottsville, a World War II veteran and Purple Heart recipient.
County commissioners Chairwoman Mantura M. Gallagher, commissioners Frank J. Staudenmeier and Francis V. McAndrew and other county officials were on hand, as were state Sen. David Argall, R-29, and Reps. Neal Goodman, D-123, Jerry Knowles, D-124, and Mike Tobash, R-125.
“My dad always said elections are a great equalizer,” Goodman said. “On Election Day, everyone is equal, every vote is important and every vote counts.”
“I am in awe of this audience. You have seen a lot of elected officials come and go,” Argall told the honorees. “I tell the class I teach at Penn State all the time, this system doesn’t work if people don’t vote. Obviously, you get it. Keep it up for 50 more years.”
Many of the honorees are veterans, who stood as the third Brigade Band played the theme song of each branch of service.
Richard Zimmerman, 72, of Pine Grove, remembers voting for John F. Kennedy the first time he voted.
“I just got out of the army and returned home from Germany. I registered because I wanted to vote for John Kennedy,” Zimmerman said.
Zimmerman, like many of the honorees, said he didn’t realize he had such an exemplary voting record.
“I had no idea. I thought I might have missed one or two,” he said. “To tell you the truth, it was pretty easy since most of the time, the place I voted was only three doors down from where I lived.”
For Wayne R. Kamp, 85, a Navy veteran of World War II from New Ringgold, voting led to a long run in public office.
“I think voting is an honor I earned and from voting I became interested in politics,” Kamp said. “I was a councilman in New Ringgold for quite a few years and we did some good work while I was there.”
Lewis said he hopes the younger generation continues to be active voters.
“Please vote. It’s a privilege and an honor. Many people aren’t able to vote,” Lewis said.
Frannie Brennan, director of the county’s election bureau, said 213 people registered for Tuesday’s event and more than 670 people attended, including guests.
“Anyone who was unable to attend will get their certificate in the mail,” Brennan said Tuesday.
The Pennsylvania Voter Hall of Fame was created in 1982 and has grown to 17,525, including Tuesday’s new members. The last Schuylkill County ceremony was held in 1995 and before Tuesday’s honorees were listed, there were 1,422 county names in the Hall of Fame exhibit in Harrisburg.

Tags: Interesting Articles Posted in Interesting News Articles |   No Comments »


Printelect Hires Tyler Lincks as Virginia Account Manager!
April 25th, 2011 

(New Bern, NC) April 19th, 2011- National election solutions provider, Printelect, is pleased to announce that Tyler Lincks is joining their team as the Virginia Account Manager.  Tyler will be based out of Richmond, supplementing Printelect and ES&S’s existing presence in Virginia.
Printelect and Mr. Lincks look forward to great success in the Commonwealth of Virginia by helping to modernize voting systems, introduce new technologies, and provide superior printing and professional election services to Virginia’s localities.
Tyler brings over 20 years of elections management and business development experience to Printelect.  Previously, Tyler held positions in both the public and private sectors of the elections industry. His experience includes the Virginia State Board of Elections, as well as at elections suppliers Global Elections Systems, Advanced Voting Solutions, and Sequoia Voting Systems. Most recently, Tyler has been involved with Elections Services Online and Scytl USA in a consultant capacity.
“Tyler is a native Virginian and his roots in the state election system will enable him to hit the ground running,” says Printelect CEO & President Owen Andrews. “He will be a major asset for us by serving the existing Printelect accounts in Virginia, as well as advising new jurisdictions of the election solutions that Printelect & ES&S can provide.”
Founded in 1902, Printelect is a full-service elections provider offering political, campaign and commercial printing, election products, equipment and service, as well as the Mobile Voting Precinct (MVP). 
Printelect is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Owen G. Dunn Company.  Its headquarters are located in New Bern, N.C., with additional operations in Raleigh, N.C. and Fayetteville, N.C.

 Posted in Company News, Employee Spotlight, General Information, Press Releases, Uncategorized |   No Comments »


New Voter’s Choice Instructional Video!
March 1st, 2011 


Press play to see the assembly of the best election sign on the market!

Tags: elect, election, election sign, printelect, sign, sign system, vote, voter's choice, voters, Voting Posted in Uncategorized |   No Comments »


DC Motivates Poll Chiefs Through Performance Bonus
February 24th, 2011 

Washington, DC is implementing a groundbreaking incentive system for it’s poll workers. The district provided precinct captains with “report cards” that grade them on eight criteria, including opening/closing time, result/paperwork return, and other election day responsibilities.
This innovative model of accountability and motivation was said to have had a big impact in last November’s elections, and may catch on elsewhere in 2012.
See below for the rest of the article, via Samuel Derheimer for Electionline.
District of Columbia offers performance bonus to poll workers
 
Bonus pay earned through election day performance and additional training
By Samuel Derheimer
On November 2, 2010, I earned $300 from the District of Columbia Board of Elections and Ethics (DCBOEE).
Just over half my hefty haul —  $160 — was my base pay for serving as a precinct captain, the chief Election Day worker for poll sites in D.C. A couple weeks ago, I learned I had earned an additional $140 in performance pay.
Under a new program, D.C. handed out up to $140 in bonuses to precinct captains based on their performance on eight Election Day tasks. Accompanying the bonus was a report card detailing how we did on each task and whether we had earned the bonus: $10 or $20 per task. I was part of 30 percent of captains to earn ’em all (and so could proudly face Doug Chapin at work the next day).
The bonus program was a response to a particularly troubled 2010 primary election in D.C.
The 2010 elections were a bit of an Elections perfect storm here in our nation’s capital — granted, it was a self-imposed perfect storm, the result of the “Omnibus Election Reform Act of 2009.” D.C. introduced two new styles voting machines, a DRE and an optical scan machine.  The city also introduced a new electronic pollbooks and offered election-day registration for the first time. And turnout was high due to the hotly contested mayoral race.
Both voters and poll workers had to navigate the primary on a full precinct’s worth of new equipment and procedures. Read the rest of this entry »

Tags: Election Day Voting, General Information, Interesting Articles, Voting Posted in General Information, Interesting News Articles |   No Comments »


Sign systems and their solutions to your sign placement locations
February 18th, 2011 


Over the last ten years, election authorities have seen a noticeable increase in polling place signage options in the election products market. What was once an item that was mostly produced by the end-users themselves, election products companies across the country recognized an opportunity to provide standardized, generic signage and stand offerings to election authorities to address their signage needs. The end result has been an increase in sign and stand solutions of all sizes and shapes, ranging from post and base styles to coraplast a-frame styles and everything in between. Each one of these sign styles presents added benefits to the end user when compared to the users producing the signage themselves. These advantages include, but are certainly not limited to:  lower price per unit, faster lead times, the ability to purchase smaller quantities, and a readily available selection of text and/or images to choose from.
One of the newer, easier to use sign systems on the market today is the Voter’s Choice Portable Sign System. This post and base sign style takes a fresh approach to a time-tested idea for signage that is both easy to assemble and easy to see. Consisting of a base, interlocking post sections, a cap and a sign, this sign system is perfect for both interior and exterior usage when ADA height requirements render other sign styles unusable.
This new sign system has made the deployment of the post and base style sign system a much easier task.  Matching post sections alleviate the need to purchase different sections and allow the user to start the stand assembly process with any post section. Once the post section is attached to the stand base, increasing the overall height of the sign stand is as easy as adding more sections. After attaching all three of the included post sections, the user simply attaches the top cap to complete the stand. Once the stand is completed, the user will then insert a sign into the top cap until the locators on the cap snap around the matching cutouts on the sign. Within minutes, the sign system is ready to go; all while adhering to ADA height requirements.  Breakdown is as simple as reversing the process.
With the option of weighing the hollow base with water or sand, this sign system becomes a viable exterior solution to deliver various messages outside the polling place. In addition to this sign system, election partners provide all kinds of other popular sign styles on the market. For example, the manufacturer of this particular sign system provides only the most well-established and time-tested sign and stand systems in the industry. In the end, it is your choice depending on the features you desire and require, but just remember what the Voter’s Choice is.
Article by Ben Hudson, Election Products Manager

Tags: Election Day Supplies, Interesting Articles, Voter Signs Posted in General Information |   No Comments »


« Older Entries





Printelect Twitter
Meta 
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org

  Recent Posts 
Printelect Headquarters makes it through Hurricane Irene unscathed
East Coast earthquake rattles primaries in Virginia
Mobile Voting Precinct in Action Tomorrow!
Stuck on you: Voter’s Approve of “I Voted” Stickers
More states move to adopt military and overseas voting legislation in 2011 Legislatures rally bipartisan support for troops

 





		The Official Printelect Blog is proudly powered by
		WordPress
Entries (RSS)
		and Comments (RSS).
		






				Rss Feed

				Tweeter button

				Facebook button

				Technorati button

				Reddit button

				Myspace button

				Linkedin button

				Webonews button

				Delicious button

				Digg button

				Flickr button

				Stumbleupon button

				Newsvine button

				Youtube button