5.9 earthquake rocks, Virginia, D.C. « Warren County Report Newspaper


Warren County Report Newspaper
Warren County Virginia's #1 newspaper



5.9 earthquake rocks, Virginia, D.C.

Strongest Virginia quake since 1879 damages apartment water lines here
By Roger Bianchini
Warren County Report
On Tuesday, Aug. 23, as people in the Northern Shenandoah Valley braced for possible inland rains and wind from Hurricane Irene’s projected path north up the Eastern Seaboard they got an unexpected jolt.
At 1:51 PM as this reporter was having lunch with a friend at Elements on South Royal Avenue the building was shaken by what was reported to be a 5.9 magnitude earthquake centered 4 miles from both Louisa and Mineral, Virginia. A quick map check of the USGS website indicated the epicenter triangulated by Charlottesville to the west, Fredericksburg and Richmond to the northeast and southeast, respectively.
According to the USGS the earthquake was centered at 38N latitude and 78W longitude in an area known as the Central Virginia Seismic Zone. Weaker earthquakes in the 4.0 range to 5.0 range are reported as typical of this zone.
ABC TV 7 in DC reported the quake to be the strongest one in Virginia since 1879.
The USGS reports that 4.0 quakes can typically be felt 60 miles away and 5.0 quake as far away as 300 miles, with damage typical as far as 25 miles from the epicenter of a 5.0 quake.
The Associated Press reported that two nuclear reactors operated by Dominion Power in Louisa County near Lake Anna within 25 miles of Mineral were undamaged. Those reactors were automatically shut down near the time of the quake. Four emergency diesel generators were operating key safety systems at the nuclear plants, according to AP.
The quake rolled through Northern Virginia, Washington D.C. and into the Northern Shenandoah Valley. One co-patron at our Tuesday afternoon lunch stop, Edward Jones broker George Karnes, estimated what he felt as a 2.0 to 2.5 tremor. We were unable to verify or dispute Karnes’ guess at the strength of the quake as it reached Front Royal.
Local damage
Property Manager Teresa Cherry of the Shenandoah Commons Apartment Complex off Westminster Drive told us initial reports indicated damage, primarily to water lines, in nine of 10 buildings in the complex. Some residents allowed to return to their apartments were advised not to use their stoves that evening. However following an inspection of all units it appeared only five residents and two pets were in need of temporary accommodations to facilitate repairs.
On the scene at Shenandoah Commons at 5 PM, County Fire and Rescue Officer Marti Viggiano said it seemed the county would not have to open an emergency shelter at one of the public high schools due to the small number of displaced residents. Local Red Cross has traditionally been able to utilize local motels for families displaced by residential fires in the county.
DC area damage
Some 70 miles to our east, where nerves are usually a bit more taught due to the national political machinations for control or destruction of the federal governmental apparatus, the U.S. Capitol and other federal buildings were evacuated due to the rolling tremor. DC-area TV reports showed large numbers of people milling about outside buildings in downtown Washington, including headquarters of the Washington Post.
Despite the evacuation of their building, the Post reported the quake was felt as far north as Boston, as far south as Anderson, South Carolina, and northwest to Columbus, Ohio.
The Virginia Department of Transportation initially reported no known damage to bridges or roadways. However damage reports began rolling in as the afternoon progressed.
A spire was reported to have collapsed at National Cathedral in DC, closing that building to the public. News 7 DC also reported that a building on the 6100 block of Oxon Hill Road in Prince Georges County, Maryland had collapsed. No initial details on the type or age of that building were available.
Our initial experience of the earthquake was at our downtown lunch stop. Several customers quickly recognized the source of the vibrations and rattling silverware as an earthquake. When several Elements customers countered they believed a nearby train was the culprit, another asked, “WHAT train?”
Elements owner David Gedney, who rushed outside to check his building exterior, returned quickly to report that his damage was limited to five broken plates upstairs in his Apartment 2G dinner restaurant.
Rockland report
As the quake rolled through Rockland our northside correspondent Malcolm Barr Sr. and his wife Carol were in their kitchen. Barr, a self-acclaimed veteran of many earthquakes while working in Hawaii, strolled to his front door to see “what piece of heavy equipment neighbor Thomas McGeath was driving by on Rockland Road.” Meanwhile, Barr reported his wife was talking “Armageddon” and their future daughter-in-law in Tennessee called to see if everyone was okay.
Echoing initial reactions by some of our fellow Elements lunchtime patrons, Barr observed, “Sounded like a train rumbling by.”
While used to such occurrences during his stints in Hawaii, Barr added, “I guess since we don’t have many earthquakes around here, I couldn’t quite believe my wife when she said we were in the middle of one. Those in Hilo (Hawaii) regularly bounced things off the walls; then one of the volcanoes would treat us to another ‘fireworks’ display.”
This report will be updated as information becomes available.


Residents of 25 Shenandoah Commons Way await verdict on whether they will be able to sleep at home following earthquake damage to water lines in their building.

WC Fire & Rescue Officer Marti Viggiano speaks with Shenandoah Commons residents.

TV 7 DC shows photo of North Anna Nuclear Power Plant after emergency diesel generators kicked in following automatic shutdown of the nuclear reactors after earthquake.



								Eco World Content From Across The Internet.
							


								Featured on EcoPressed
							

								Mental Health and Climate Change
							




Advertisement

Share this:ShareFacebookTwitterDiggRedditStumbleUponPrintEmailLike this:LikeOne blogger likes this post.

			Published in: 
Environment
Local News
Science
Uncategorized
Virginia
World		
	 on August 23, 2011 at 4:12 pm	
	 Comments (2)	 	



The URI to TrackBack this entry is: http://wcrnews.wordpress.com/2011/08/23/5-9-earthquake-rocks-virginia-d-c/trackback/
RSS feed for comments on this post.

2 Comments 
Leave a comment






			On August 23, 2011 at 4:38 pm Ruby Cooper said: 					 

I live in Sudbury, Ontario, Canada and our building felt the tremors from this earthquake. Sudbury’s downtown business core were evacuated and sent home shorlty after. Engineers will be going in to inspect any damages.

Reply 






			On August 23, 2011 at 5:05 pm Prudence Mathews said: 					 

Pictures on Facebook Page for Shenandoah Fire & Rescue shows pictures of damage to buildings in Culpeper.

Reply 









Leave a Reply Cancel reply



Enter your comment here...





Guest
Log In
Log In
Log In









Email (required) (Not published)



Name (required)



Website











Please log in to WordPress.com to post a comment to your blog.













 You are commenting using your Twitter account. (Log Out)












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. (Log Out)




Connecting to %s



 Notify me of follow-up comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.







 

 







 Discussion Forum

 




 Contact Us

 
Read the Print Edition


Email Subscription

Enter your email address receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 127 other followers









 
Our latest photos

 
Read The Lynchburg Times

 
Read the Frederick County Report

 

 

 
About us Advertising Announcements Back Issues Business Crime Education Entertainment Environment Food & Drink Health History Humor Literature Local News Music National Odd Opinion Paleo Indians Politics Real Estate Religion Science Sports Technology Travel Uncategorized Virginia World 
 

Our Friends


 Recent Comments
Formangermangen on Fast-pitch softball champs fun…Angry on Va. gov. eager to ‘punis…Prudence Mathews on 5.9 earthquake rocks, Virginia…Ruby Cooper on 5.9 earthquake rocks, Virginia…Chet Stanhope on Josh Turner’s right hand man: …

 Hot Off the Wires
Two dead as wildfires scorch Texas, Perry back home - ReutersEurope Signals Global Gloom - Wall Street JournalObama: Times are tough "but we're tougher" - CBS NewsMubarak Trial Hears Officers Say Unaware of Live-Fire Orders - San Francisco Chronicle'Run, Sarah, run!' chants greet Palin in NH - NECNGOP Hopefuls Vying for Tea Party's Support - New York TimesLee's remnants spawn Ga. twisters, drown Miss. man - Chicago Sun-TimesLibya: UK moves to reopen embassy in Tripoli - The GuardianLibyan NTC Fighters Pause in Battle for Key Town - Voice of AmericaUN warns of 750000 deaths as Somalia famine area spreads - The Independent
 Top Posts
UPDATED: Crazy flooding photos & videos from our readers in Front Royal & Warren CountyThe Early September, 2011 edition of Warren County ReportFirefighters from across the country headed to Shenandoah National ParkJosh Turner’s right hand man: Derek Wells’ life on the road with a top country actMississippi’s Petal High Band marches into history5.9 earthquake rocks, Virginia, D.C.Victims identified in mass murder in Appomattox CountyEXCLUSIVE: Salahi winery getting abusive, angry calls - Oasis manager pulls the plugExclusive: Secret Service at Oasis Winery in search for Salahi'sBREAKING NEWS: FBI Arrests Sheriff of Page County, VA 
Pages

About
google1b11934255d39216.html


Archives

September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
December 2009
November 2009
October 2009
September 2009
August 2009
July 2009
June 2009
May 2009
April 2009
March 2009
February 2009
January 2009
December 2008
November 2008
October 2008
September 2008
August 2008
July 2008
June 2008
May 2008
April 2008
March 2008
February 2008
January 2008
December 2007
November 2007
October 2007
September 2007
August 2007
July 2007
June 2007
May 2007
April 2007
March 2007
February 2007
January 2007
December 2006
November 2006
October 2006
September 2006
August 2006


Blogroll

Drudge Report
Dvorak Uncensored
Huffington Post
New York Times
Wall Street Journal
Warren County Report Newspaper
Washington Post
WordPress.com
WordPress.org


Meta

Register Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.com


 

 

 


 

 Latest from The Lynchburg Times
Man shows cops driver’s license from Kingdom of HeavenA Virginia man was arrested after showing police a driver’s license from the “Kingdom of Heaven” and accusing an officer of treason. From Front Royal PD: Chief Richard H. Furr has reported the arrest of Randy R Linamen of 8724 [...]New live web TV show debuts on Google Plus (video)Google Plus experts and users mixed it up on the first episode of Google+ Week Friday night. It is the first weekly web TV show on and about the world’s newest social network. The premier featured discussion ranging from the [...]All about Google Plus w/ Christina Trapolino: McDermott Report (23)- Google + is huge. How is it different from Facebook. - Emily has been more engaged on Plus she ever was on Facebook. Why? - Christina says Plus is a “more refined network” that can change the world. How [...]Video: The McDermott Report – Today’s News (22)- Mark Zuckerburg is most popular guy on Google Plus even though he and Google hate each other - Dan has lost 20 pounds by not eating junk in a box - Debt Crisis update (important even though it kills [...]Rep. Allen West tirade & Why iPads beat other tablets: McDermott Report (VIDEO)Tonight’s topics on McDermott Report: - Allen West tears into Wasserman-Schultz: ‘vile…despicable…not a Lady’ - All about the McConnell-Reid debt limit backup plan - U.S. backup debt plan doesn’t support rating: Moody’s tells Reuters - Moody’s warns could cut 5 [...]More outrage as non-responsive Netflix goes down during Sunday prime timeBy Dan McDermott The Lynchburg Times Oh, how quickly they fall. For years revered by employees and customers alike, the reputation of Netflix has gone (as Moody’s might put it) from AAA to junk. Less than one week after announcing [...]Video: The McDermott Report- UK phone hacking scandal not yet impacting News Corp. US properties - 7% News Corp. shareholder Prince Alwaleed bin Talal al-Saud says he is ethical. Interesting. - Why is it easier to read news on a Blackberry app than [...]The Lynchburg Times: July – August, 2011The complete print edition of The Lynchburg Times is free and readable online and downloadable in two different sizes. Highlights: • Public outcry leads to revisions in proposed zoning warrant language • Handicap fines doubled • Scene3 peddles recycled bikes, [...]Video: Meet Andy Schmookler, candidate for CongressIn part one of our series on the 6th District Congressional race we meet Democrat Andy Schmookler. He is running for the seat currently held by Republican Robert Goodlatte.Video: UK Tabloid drama. Fox News. Google Plus.While CNN shuffles its prime time line-up, the UK tabloid hacking scandal heats up and President Obama’s Twitter Town Hall fizzles. Does Facebook’s Mark Zuckerberg need adult supervision? McDermott Report Topics: - News of the World hacking story gets even [...]




Blog at WordPress.com. 
| RSS 2.0
| Comments RSS 2.0
| Theme: Quentin.


















Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			





