earthquake, cnn, earthquake in virginia today, earthquake today, earthquake in new york today | The Google Trends









The Google Trends



Your online resource to Google Trends... Share your comments on popular trends...

















































Wednesday, 24 August 2011





earthquake, cnn, earthquake in virginia today, earthquake today, earthquake in new york today




Strongest quake this coast since 1944!!

The most powerful earthquake to strike the East Coast in 67 years shook buildings and rattled nerves from Georgia to Maine on Tuesday. Frightened office workers spilled into the streets in New York, and parts of the White House, Capitol and Pentagon were evacuated.There were no reports of deaths or serious injuries.
                                                               
Debris covers the floor of the Miller's Mart food store in Mineral, Va., a small town northwest of Richmond near the earthquake's epicenter, Tuesday, Aug. 23, 2011. The most powerful earthquake to strike the East Coast in 67 years shook buildings and rattled nerves from South Carolina to Maine. (AP Photo/Steve Helber)
The National Cathedral said its central tower and three of its four corner spires were damaged, but the White House said advisers had told President Barack Obama there were no reports of major damage to the nation's infrastructure, including airports and nuclear facilities.The U.S. Geological Survey said the quake registered magnitude 5.8 and was centered 90 miles southwest of Washington. It was mild by West Coast standards, but the East Coast is not used to quakes of any size. The last quake of equal power to strike the East Coast was in New York in 1944.Tuesday's quake briefly raised fears of a terror attack less than three weeks before the 10th anniversary of Sept. 11."I thought I was having maybe a heart attack, and I saw everybody running," said Adrian Ollivierre, an accountant who was in his office on the 60th floor of the Empire State Building when the shaking began. "I think what it is, is the paranoia that happens from 9/11, and that's why I'm still out here -- because, I'm sorry, I'm not playing with my life."Two nuclear reactors at the North Anna Power Station, in the same county as the epicenter, were automatically taken off line by safety systems, said Roger Hannah, a spokesman for the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
At the Pentagon, a low rumbling built until the building itself was shaking, and people ran into the corridors of the complex. The shaking continued there, to shouts of "Evacuate! Evacuate!" The main damage to the building, the largest single workspace for the federal government, came from a broken water pipe.
The Park Service closed all monuments and memorials on the National Mall, and ceiling tiles fell at Reagan National Airport outside Washington. Many nonessential workers in Washington were sent home for the day. The Capitol was reopened by late afternoon for people to retrieve their things.
The National Cathedral said cracks had appeared in the flying buttresses around the apse at one end. "Everyone here is safe," the cathedral said on its official Twitter feed. "Please pray for the Cathedral as there has been some damage."
In lower Manhattan, the 26-story federal courthouse, blocks from ground zero of the Sept. 11 attacks, began swaying, and hundreds of people streamed out of the building.The New York police commissioner, Raymond Kelly, was in a meeting with top deputies planning security for the upcoming anniversary when the shaking started. Workers in the Empire State Building spilled into the streets, some having descended dozens of flights of stairs.
"I thought we'd been hit by an airplane," said one worker, Marty Wiesner.New York District Attorney Cyrus R. Vance was starting a news conference about the dismissal of the sexual assault case against Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the former head of the International Monetary Fund, when the shaking began. Reporters and aides began rushing out the door until it became clear it was subsiding.
On Wall Street, the floor of the New York Stock Exchange did not shake, officials said, but the Dow Jones industrial average sank 60 points soon after the quake struck. The Dow began rising again a half-hour later and finished the day up 322 points.
Shaking was felt as far south as Charleston, S.C., as far north as Maine and as far west as Cincinnati and Atlanta. It also was felt on Martha's Vineyard, off the coast of Massachusetts, where Obama is taking summer vacation and was starting a round of golf when the quake struck at 1:51 p.m.
Obama led a conference call Tuesday afternoon on the earthquake with top administration officials, including his homeland security secretary, national security adviser and administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
The Virginia quake came a day after an earthquake in Colorado toppled groceries off shelves and caused minor damage to homes in the southern part of the state and in northern New Mexico. No injuries were reported as aftershocks continued Tuesday.
The largest East Coast quake on record was a 7.3 that hit South Carolina in 1886. In 1897, a magnitude-5.9 quake was recorded at Giles County, Va., the largest on record in that state.




Posted by
Freedom


at
04:55












Labels:
cnn,
earthquake,
earthquake in new york today,
earthquake in virginia today,
earthquake today








0
comments:
        








Post a Comment



















Newer Post


Older Post

Home




Subscribe to:
Post Comments (Atom)











































Recent Posts






























Blog Archive






▼ 

2011
(107)





          ► 
        


September
(2)

UPS, dhl, fedex, tnt, dhl tracking, tnt tracking
Jamaica - michael johnson, saint kitts and nevis, ...






▼ 

August
(24)

Tyler the creator yonkers, odd future, tyler perry...
Glen Campbell looks forward with gratitude
steve jobs, steve jobs cancer, steve jobs resigned...
earthquake, cnn, earthquake in virginia today, ear...
7 wonders of the ancient world
The glee project winner - Damian McGinty
big brother 13, big brother 13 spoilers, big broth...
The Daily Show: Ali Velshi Talks Economy, Money
chupacabra, chupacabra pictures - Elusive Capybara...
Nascar news, watkins glen, espn radio, esp, guia t...
Reba McEntire ‘Turn on the Radio’ on ‘CMA Music Fe...
So you think you can dance winner?
Powerball, illinois lottery, power ball, ga lotter...
Wisconsin vote tests Tea Party power
francois xavier mort, fx mort, françois xavier, fr...
Adam Scott - bridgestone invitational leaderboard
stock market today, stock market, stock market new...
Milwaukee Brewers
Hightower helped put Smith among football's best a...
New Jersey Reaches Out to Unclaimed Money Owners
Crop circles become increasingly more high-tech
Marisa Miller's Beach Body Revealed Photo
Randy Moss Retires After 13 Seasons
Diablo 3 beta preview - release date august?








          ► 
        


July
(19)

Saints replace Reggie Bush by signing Darren Sprol...
Reggie Bush, Haynesworth Are Traded: Burress to Me...
Colby Rasmus to Blue Jays for Edwin Jackson “is Im...
Doug Richard launches creative business training i...
Kim Kardashian Contracts Psoriasis Disease
Traces performs on 'America's Got Talent' - watch ...
'Jellyfish Soup' Alert For Britain's Swimmers
Emma Stone and Andrew Garfield put their chemistry...
'Hell's Kitchen' and 'MasterChef': 'What kind of s...
Lil Boosie Indicted on Drug Smuggling Charge
Casey Anthony Released From Florida Prison
Emmy nominations pit Kate Winslet against Downton ...
Rescue Me, "Mutha": ghosts of alcoholism past
615,000 without power, travel delays after weather...
Facebook's 'Great' Announcement: Video Calling Via...
Bahamas Bans Shark Fishing
Five Independence Day Facts
No, Helen Mirren Does Have A Great Body
Inside the New York Times








          ► 
        


June
(17)

Katharine McPhee 'Smash-es' Into 'The Voice' (Vide...
Michele Bachmann confuses John Wayne Gacy with The...
Cee Lo Green dresses as Patti LaBelle at BET Award...
Mexico wins Gold Cup soccer, beating US
Team Fortress 2 Über Update: Day 3








          ► 
        


May
(9)







          ► 
        


April
(18)







          ► 
        


March
(17)







          ► 
        


February
(1)









          ► 
        


2010
(25)





          ► 
        


January
(25)

















Google News


Loading...












Favourite Links


No.1 iPhone 4 forum
iPad 2 accessories
iPad 2 Covers
Personalised Keyrings, Name Keyrings, Gifts etc
iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch
JusWanted
How to create a FREE blog
Website/Blog SEO Tips
I Want To Lose Weight
The Purpose Of Life
Your Trading Diary
PriceThriller













Subscribe To Google Trends







Posts
















                Atom
              










Posts












Comments
















                Atom
              










Comments






















Google Hot Trends


Loading...












Search Google!











































