Pre-Match Prediction Football World Cup 2014 Indonesia vs Bahrain                 Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.               U.S. FDA Reports Drug Shortages Have Caused Delay in...        Lack of Accountability In U.S.        Labor Day: What memories do you hold?        Is there a worse place on earth than Hyderabad Dog...        Labor Day 101 Starts With Workers Unions Yet Palin...        Jobs is the #1 issue that the Republicans and Tea Party...          Iranian police cracks down on "forbidden" water pistol...        Football Legend, Lee Roy Selmon, dead at 56, from...        Congress Returns Tomorrow: Additional FEMA Funding...        Palin raced undercover--is that how she runs all her...        Small Catholic Community But Many Kindergartens Here        Tony Blair is godfather to a daughter of Murdoch          National debate about South Africa’s future        Hunger crisis intensifies        COUPLE HELD HOSTAGE BY PIRATES PLAN ANOTHER ROUND THE...        Venice: Vasco unpublished, between friends and Zocca...        Pakistan, took a leading al-Qaeda         A LOCK OF NAPOLEON'S HAIR DCISCOVERED AT SIR WALTER...              Pre-Match Prediction Football World Cup 2014 Indonesia vs Bahrain    Jakarta :  Indonesia
|
Sep 04, 2011
 
By namakuimut            1 0      
Views: 425
       Indonesia vs Bahrain national team of 2011 and Predictions Results Match Football Scores Pre World Cup 2014 - After foundered while competing away at home to Iran, Tehran Indonesia in the first game with the score 3-0 vs Iran, Indonesia national team is now trying to find a point at home to host national team Bahrain joined in Group E Pre World Cup Brazil 2014. Football match Indonesia vs Bahrain national team will be held in Jakarta. When? Took place on 6 September 2011 directly from the Bung Karno Main Stadium (GBK). Ticket prices and match Indonesia vs Bahrain Classes maybe my friend could read on another page. In two days ago exactly GBK also filled by the legendary AC Milan match Indonesia vs All Star Glories Glories. The results match up to this post typed still not visible, because the match is underway. Indonesia national team's first defeat in Pre-World Cup event this provision to force Gonzalez, Firman Utina, et al to seize full score in Jakarta when facing Bahrain. Approximate Bahrain and Indonesia players predicted the same as the first game. If my friend asked for Guess Score to be acquired Indonesia's senior national team when facing Bahrain, how many Final results will be obtained from the preliminary group matches E Pre 2014 World Cup this?        1 of 7        
Indonesia's national soccer team stand during the playing of national anthems before their 2014 World Cup qualifying soccer match against Iran
     
namakuimut is based in Jakarta, Jakarta, Indonesia,
and is Anchor for Allvoices
 Report Credibility             Share:                              
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:  Indonesia (51.5%) United States of America (17.2%) Canada (4.5%) Portugal (4.1%) 18 other countries (19.6%)           READ MORE: Bahrain, Tehran Indonesia, Tehran, Approximate Bahrain, world cup, national team, indonesia vs, vs bahrain, matches indonesia, Indonesia   More News From: Jakarta :  Indonesia      Advertisement         Post a Comment Comments: 0                  Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel               Related Allvoices Contributions          Pre World Cup: Iran's Dead Ball, Immerse Indonesia (3-0) By: hrayana      Pre World Cup: Iran's Dead Ball, Immerse Indonesia (3-0)
Ferril Dennys | Tjatur Wiharyo | Saturday, September 3, 2011 | 0:27 pm TEHRAN, KOMPAS.com - Indonesia's national team 0-3 defeat against the hosts Iran on the first leg qualifying match Pre-2014 World Cup Asian zone third round on Friday (02/09/2011) night. Interestingly, the ...  2 days ago     Iran beat Indonesia 3-0 By: muhammadjusuf       
Iran beat Indonesia 3-0
 
Indonesia failed to deliver on its mission to steal points from the match in Azadi Stadium, Tehran, at the premiere party Group E qualifiers 2014 World Cup Asian Zone, Friday (2 / 9) night. Tim "Red and White" defeated 0-3.Iranian captain Javad Nekounam header in the 53rd minute for Iran's first ...  3 days ago     Host Iran's national team looked indonesia team just as the underdogs ... By: muhammadjusuf      Host Iran's national team looked indonesia team  just as the underdogs 
Host Iran's national team looked indonesia team  just as the underdogs in the opening match in Group E the third round of the 2014 World Cup-qualification Asia Zone on Friday (09/02/2011) night.However, that view may be a benefit so that the Word Utina and ...  3 days ago     Indonesia Football: Seeking Tactics Strategies for Taming Iran By: hrayana      Agung Setyahadi | Hery Prasetyo | Thursday, August 18, 2011 | 07:35
SOLO, KOMPAS.com - the senior national team continues to look for tactics, strategy and game scheme suitable to deal with Iran through the three trials against the U23 national team, Palestinians and Jordanians. As for the U23 national team coach Rahmat Darmawan made by combining ...  18 days ago          Loading News Contributions...       News Stories      Relevant |
Recent |
Oldest     Bahrain wary of “dangerous” RI players  
The Jakarta Post
 Follow us on Sports Bahrain national soccer team coach Peter Taylor said on Sunday he was impressed by the performance of three top Indonesian players. Gonzales, Firman Utina and M Ridwan are dangerous players, Taylor said on Sunday after leading a...    70,000 tickets available for Indonesia vs Bahrain soccer match  
The Jakarta Post
 Follow us on Sports The World Cup pre-qualifying round soccer match organizer has prepared 70,000 tickets for the upcoming match between Indonesia and Bahrain, which will be held at Gelora Bung Karno stadium in Jakarta on Tuesday.    Stadium still quite ahead of much anticipated match  
The Jakarta Post
 Follow us on Sports Soccer fans have not yet begun to pack into the Gelora Bung Karno Stadium in Senayan, Central Jakarta, although a much anticipated friendly between AC Milan Gloris and Indonesian All-Star Legends will take place at 6 p.m Sunday.       Images    >         Indonesia's national soccer ...    Indonesia's national soccer ... Image Source: www.reuters.com Indonesia's national soccer team stand during the playing of national ...        Iran's national soccer team's ...    Iran's national soccer team's ... Image Source: www.reuters.com Iran's national soccer team's head coach Queiroz watches as Indonesia's ...        Iran's national soccer team ...    Iran's national soccer team ... Image Source: www.reuters.com Iran's national soccer team pose for a group picture before their 2014 ...        Bahrain's national team new ...    Bahrain's national team new ... Image Source: www.reuters.com Bahrain's national team new coach Peter Taylor of England controls the ball ...        A female member of Indonesia's ...    A female member of Indonesia's ... Image Source: www.reuters.com A female member of Indonesia's largest Muslim organization, NU, stands ...        Bahrain's national team new ...    Bahrain's national team new ... Image Source: www.reuters.com Bahrain's national team new coach Peter Taylor speaks during a news ...      More Related Images    More From Jakarta          Magnitude 6.6 Earthquake Hits Northern Sumatra         istri saiful jamil meninggal dunia        Indonesian artist's wife, singer song Saipul Jamil, VirginiaAnggraeni, who had married in March 2011 and was killed in a traffic accident        Host Iran's national team looked indonesia team just as the underdogs            UN policeman killed in the waters of Timor-Leste        US METAL ACT SUICIDE SILENCE COMING TO BALI        Why Smoking Can Trigger Breast Cancer         Residents in the Lower Bridge Welcoming Thunder Lebaran with Joy          Eid mix-up in Indonesia        NEW BOOK LAUNCHED TO HELP PEOPLE INTERESTED IN RETIRING TO BALI        IED blast in the border village in Maluku, Indonesia on allegedly due to seizure of water resources between villages        In Indonesia, the ferry sank. killed at least ten           At least 12 dead in Indonesia ferry sinking                   Advertisement                 Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10246671          Cartoons of The Day             Dick Cheneys book          Israeli Spring            Happy Birthday          High Holidays    See More Cartoons »                  Most Viewed Reports     Labor Day Sales: What stores and offices open on Labor Day? By: richwebnews
| about 15 hours ago
      (Photos) 21-foot Crocodile Captured Alive in Southern Philippines  By: marvendumaguit
| about 10 hours ago
      We deliver: United States Postal Service Broke! By: DetroitReports
| about 6 hours ago
      Football Legend, Lee Roy Selmon, dead at 56, from complications after ... By: GeorgeMcGinn
| about 24 hours ago
      Palin raced undercover--is that how she runs all her races? By: StephEaly
| about 23 hours ago
      Pre-Match Prediction Football World Cup 2014 Indonesia vs Bahrain By: namakuimut
| about 22 hours ago
      It’s Not Easy Being Black By: katetier
| about 23 hours ago
      Is Journalism Dead? By: Sherrill_Fulghum
| about 23 hours ago
      Lack of Accountability In U.S. By: robertweller
| about 11 hours ago
      Argentina, Messi and Nigeria In Dhaka By: Baadshahmintu
| about 20 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     It’s Not Easy Being Black By: katetier
| about 23 hours ago
      Palin raced undercover--is that how she runs all her races? By: StephEaly
| about 23 hours ago
      UPDATE on Madonna lawsuit over Material Girl clothing line By: AmberCornelio
| about 21 hours ago
      Five killed, four injured in New Karachi By: Ammaduddin
| about 21 hours ago
      Football Legend, Lee Roy Selmon, dead at 56, from complications after ... By: GeorgeMcGinn
| about 24 hours ago
      Pakistan beat China 4-1 in Asian Hockey Cup By: HumTum
| about 15 hours ago
      Al-Qaeda leader Younis Al Mauritani arrested By: HumTum
| about 12 hours ago
      Lack of Accountability In U.S. By: robertweller
| about 11 hours ago
      WA man bitten in half by shark!!! By: AmberCornelio
| about 22 hours ago
      Is Journalism Dead? By: Sherrill_Fulghum
| about 23 hours ago
              Contributor Report     News Stories: 3       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 4       Images: 1       Comments: 0    0       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10246671), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10246671 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10246671 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “Pre-Match Prediction Football World Cup 2014 Indonesia vs Bahrain” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/10246671-prematch-prediction-football-world-cup-2014-indonesia-vs-bahrain.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close                This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...                         