[UPDATE] 5.8 Magnitude Earthquake In Virginia Rattles Brooklyn, Manhattan, Queens: Gothamist


















74°
	















                            our cities: 
Austin
Boston
Chicago
London
Los Angeles
New York City
San Francisco
Seattle
Shanghai
Toronto
Washington DC









Photos: Andrew Cuomo, Sandra Lee Help Upstate Victims Of Hurricane Irene featured



Window Smoker Gets City Payout After Being Treated As Suicidal



Anti-Gay Marriage Group Still Spending Money To Turn Back Time





 



 









[UPDATE] 5.8 Magnitude Earthquake In Virginia Rattles Brooklyn, Manhattan, Queens 





































The FDNY and the US Geological Survey has confirmed a 5.9 magnitude earthquake in central Virginia. Residents of Manhattan and Brooklyn have reported feeling the earthquake as well. Gothamist HQ was rocking like a hurricane just minutes ago. Updates to follow.
[UPDATE / 2:25 p.m.] Reuters is reporting that the epicenter of the earthquake was in Mineral, Virginia. The AP reports that it is the largest earthquake to hit the nation's capital. Both the Pentagon and the Capitol building in Washington are being evacuated, as are numerous offices in Manhattan. MTA service remains unaffected. 
In Brooklyn, IKEA is being evacuated, and in typical fashion, one man opines on Twitter that he's "not all that impressed." Colorado experienced its "largest natural earthquake" with a 5.3 magnitude just last night. 
[UPDATE / 2:31 p.m.] Readers from South Carolina to Rhode Island are emailing us saying they felt the quake. In Queens, one tipster writes: "I'm in Queens right across the water from Citi Field and Laguardia Airport and we felt it in our office building. Us and a few other businesses in the industrial park all evacuated and stayed outside for about 15 minutes before returning."
We've also received reports that Goldman Sachs's building in lower Manhattan has been evacuated. Cell phone service continues to be nonexistent at Gothamist HQ.
[UPDATE / 2:36 p.m.] Per the DOT, all New York City bridges, runways, and tunnels appear to be intact. 
[UPDATE / 2:41 p.m.] A spokesman for the FDNY tells us, "We have elevated call volume. People are of course calling 911 after feeling shaking in their buildings, but we're not aware of any major collapse or incident at this time." Per the Port Authority, Newark and JFK Airports have been temporarily shut down, but La Guardia appears to still be open. 
[UPDATE / 2:55 p.m.] Our reporter in Brooklyn is speaking with some shaken-up witnesses. 28-year-old Queens resident Shonn Hawkins, who was working in a factory in Brooklyn, said “I was sawing at the table and I felt a quiet shake. I asked my coworkers around if they felt anything and they said no and thought I was playing or something...then the building was evacuated.”
Katherine Raffa, a student in Fort Greene, noted, “I was sitting in my basement and you could feel the ground move left to right and right to left from underneath. It was a strong silent force.”
Handicap program specialist Thomas Pinkerton was at his home in Bushwick: “I was sitting on my bed and I felt the motion and I didn’t know what was going on. I didn’t even think it was an earthquake, I came outside and found out.” 
[UPDATE / 3:10 p.m.] The earthquake, which is now officially measured at 5.9, has not disrupted any MTA service.  Yet.
[UPDATE / 3:49 p.m.] Mayor Bloomberg has released the following statement 
Like people up and down the East Coast, New Yorkers across the five boroughs felt the effect of this afternoon’s earthquake in Virginia. I’ve spoken with our Police and Fire Commissioners, and we’ve activated the Office of Emergency Management’s Situation Room and spoken to other city agencies, including the Department of Buildings. Thankfully, there are no reports of significant damage or injuries in New York City at this time. As ever, we urge New Yorkers to call 911 only in cases of actual emergencies."

Shortly before 2:00 PM, we evacuated City Hall briefly, but quickly returned to work. As we await more news from Virginia and elsewhere, our thoughts in New York are with those who were more directly affected by this natural disaster.
[UPDATE / 4:07 p.m.] The USGS is reporting that Virginia experienced a 2.8 magnitude aftershock at 2:46 p.m. A rep from the agency tells the Washington Post, “Aftershocks could go on for days, weeks, or even months. They’re most likely to be felt under the next three or four days.” 
Metro North and LIRR continue to operate unabated, whereas Amtrak is operating at "reduced speed" between D.C. and Baltimore.
[UPDATE / 4:55 p.m.] Our reporter in Manhattan spoke to Kelly Ardoin, who works at 155 Sixth Avenue, about her experience during the quake. "We were just sitting at our desk and I felt my desk shake and I thought it was like, my heart or something, and then two seconds later it shook considerably. They didn't pull the alarm or anything, but our boss was in the conference room and he stood up and said 'let's go,
let's get out of here.' By the time we got to the fire stairs, the security or nobody ever said a word about getting out of the building."
Additional reporting by Bethany O'Grady and Rachel Pincus
Contact the author of this article or email tips@gothamist.com with further questions, comments or tips.




    
            By Christopher Robbins in News on August 23, 2011  3:30 PM
View






Angry God brooklyn earthquake FDNY geological events manhattan NYPD virginia




Other Interesting Stories



Comments [rss]









HowBoutDemCowboys



Dammit!  I was on the subway at the time, so it didn't feel any different than normal.






robingee



The water in the office water cooler was sloshing around.






edgie168



lawl - http://www.borowitzreport.com/...






JesseArmstrng



I thought it was Rex Ryan at a Zumba class!






FREDERICK



WITH LOVE, CALIFORNIA.  SO THE NEW GEORGE STRAIT SONG GOES.  OCEAN FRONT PROPERTY IN WEST VIRGINIA.






okh



I almost forgot this...PRAY FOR OMARION!






okh



Staten Island gets small earthquakes on a fairly common basis so I just thought it was one of those. I'm pretty sure there are a few faultlines running through here.






ronshapley



Yawn...... I guess






Justin Sindone



yup






Gwen Barriere



where do I get one of those?






jamieob256



I was on the sixth floor of the Federal Building in Newark NJ when my chair started shaking. It seemed to have lasted about 20 seconds. They evacuated the building and told us to go home. Of course, NJ Transit was behind schedule, but the PATH was running so I took that back to NYC. Within the past few minutes I received two automated phone calls and a text message saying that GSA has inspected the federal buildings in Newark, Camden, and Trenton and they are cleared to be reopened tomorrow.






felixthecat



apple store was evacuated as felixthecat was checking out the ipads.  LOL






the3rdcoming



Well, boo---hoo. The sheople were frightened by a little rattling. Try living in Hiroshima when the world terrorists --- I mean America, dropped nuclear hell on it... Haha!






robingee



I wasn't frightened. So suck it.






felixthecat



I know, people are such pussies and not the good kind as my cat






TheRealCannibal



How dare you degrade pussies by comparing them to your cat






TheDoctorWhoCuresCancer



I was in an earthquake in Japan when I was a little kid playing outside. It was like the earth moved in a wave, probably just an impression from being jostled. I was so young, it was fun to me. I wanted to see another one. I probably wouldn't feel the same way if it happened today. ;-)






randomtransplant



I didn't feel anything. Dammit.






edgie168



is that what she told you? lol






randomtransplant



Thats what your mom...oh, uh, wait. Good one.






RadioGagarin



Felt it here in Park Slope. I was lying on my air bed (the price I pay for living in Park Slope) in my 4th floor apartment and felt the side-to-side swaying. I was just confused. I didn't know what it was at first since I'm from Europe where we almost never have earthquakes, but I figured it couldn't be anything else. My building felt like jelly...






edgie168



so.. when your cat azrael was running around with it's tail all fluffed up, that didn't clue you in, gargamel?






Lloyd Bergenson



Didn't feel anything in midtown. Some of you have active imaginations lol.






Greg Froober



jesus almost 200 comments. calm down you dummiesfelt it, felt it,  felt it, felt it....  no one cares if you "felt it"yes it was an earthquake.   If no one "felt it" it would not have been an earthquake.






jaycjay



If no one "felt it" it would not have been an earthquake.Wow, deep! You're like Gothamist's own George Berkeley!






RadioGagarin



Come on, it gives us all something to talk about! Especially unemployed people, like me. Highlight of my otherwise uneventful day...






Potty_Boy



Actually, that brings up a serious metaphysical question, if the ground shakes, but no one feels it, was it an earthquake?






tobayb



All our doors and windows rattled significantly out in Sea Cliff, Long Island! No damage, though, but it was fairly loud too!






Dan



Video of damage in VA:http://www.youtube.com/watch?v...






Guest



We felt it pretty good in Flatbush, but no damage.






razzledazzle2



those pics are hilarious






Guest



Vincent Cassel look alike, 5th photo -- how fitting!






Guest



on a second thought, he looks more like Dan Castellaneta.






G00SEiv



What happens when California gets dumped with a couple feet of snow? Can we all laugh at them when they start complaining about a natural disaster?






dogbertt



I guess you've never heard of the "Sierra Nevada", where there are world-class ski resorts, the Winter Olympics was held, etc?Oh, and let's not forget how New York and Bermuda Mike coped with the blizzard just a few months ago.






jibbly



SoCal doesn't need a few feet of snow to fall into complete disarray, just a little rain and LA shuts down.






BrooklynDnB



This is true.






Atomic Girl



Turnabout is fair play. :-)






asakasan



"[UPDATE / 2:55 p.m.] Our reporter in Brooklyn ..."Reporter on the scene! Like Gothamist doing real journalism! Oh Chris your sarcasm never fails to amuse.






MattyGoldchains



AHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH!






Thankfully_Down_Wind_Of_IKEA



While I personally felt nothing, rumor on the train is, Chuck Norris finally put his foot down.






dogbertt



Wow....a puny 5.8 earthquake several states away and New Yorkers are all aquiver, evacuating office buildings and panicking.  As a Californian, all I can say is"Pussies!"LOL






Potty_Boy



Yeah, but...you're from California.hahahahahahah






angry_pickle



Hindsight is 20/20.Also after decades of mafia construction, I doubt New York skyscrapers could stand against a moderate earthquake underneath the city.






Atomic Girl



If I were an intelligent person, I'd worry if these unusual quakes in both Colorado and the East Coast aren't a precursor to the dreaded "Big One" in California. But since I'm a nimrod, I'll just sit here and gloat over these quakes causing "panic" on the East Coast, oblivious to the possibility that the worst earthquake my state has ever seen is just around the corner.






dogbertt



Sure, I mean, it's just that on this board New Yorkers are constantly boasting about how tough they are and how wimpy "transplants" are, then today I walk down Lexington Avenue (excuse me, "Lex") and see the FDR post office evacuated, then office after office evacuated, all because of a small earthquake several states away most people here didn't even feel, and I can't help but laugh.I'm just tired of hearing you people boast about how tough and hard you are, when an event like today's shows you really don't see yourselves accurately.






RadioGagarin



I know, right? How dare a city that was the victim of a major terrorist attack witnessed worldwide within the last decade be paranoid. It's almost like people here are traumatised by buildings collapsing, or something.






Roger_the_Shrubber



Just pray the Yellowstone Caldera doesn't go kaboom.






SonnyBobiche



You know that'll take 76% of the planet's population after all the crop failures. No amount of driving hybrids or closing coal plants is going to stop it. And as much as that makes feel superior to the global warming chicken littles and their "man is evil, nature is kind" rhetoric, I rather not think about it.






nycpwt



Go back to California and take your shifting earth with you.






BrooklynDnB



Funny but I can't stand how Cali folk have to one up ya. Not like we have these events like they do, so when it happens it's a BFD to New Yorkers lol






kitkatc1982



And you know what's a BFD to them? When one of them acts down to earth and not like a douche. Now THAT is an event to people in california.






BrooklynDnB



I guess takes a douche to know a douche ;) get off your horsey






kitkatc1982



I was defending your opinion helllooooo. lol. That being said, I don't really mind people in Cali, I figure they are just trying to one up us always bc of a slight inferiority complex. God knows we do it to them about some stuff as well. Its all good in the hood.






BrooklynDnB



My bad lol should probably put on my glasses. I am a douche lol I actually love Cali. I just don't want to live there.






kitkatc1982



blame it on the vertigo from the earthquake. And yeah, I would prefer not to fall off the side of America in the next 30 years or so. Also I really don't want to have to get boob implants. So expensive.






Alex Trust



the mayans  were right, panic!






Guest



WHO ELSE INITIALLY THOUGHT IT WAS THE TERRORISTS? c'mon, be honest...






physicsandknives



No, fat people...honestly.






Potty_Boy



I thought it was a heavyset girl walking up the stairs at the time.






Joe Millar



Obvious C.H.U.D. attack is obvious.






Mercedesz Peikert



i felt it in brooklyn! i thought i felt dizzy like i always do in hot weather but i looked to the side and the clothes that were hanging to dry were shaking. i hope that everyone is ok!






TeddyNYC



Now, we just need Irene and Al-Qaeda and we're all set here.






Roger_the_Shrubber



The democrats have already blamed the Tea Party.






Fronko



Damn bike lanes.






Stevennnn



didn't feel it in the Hudson Valley, but many others did..






bggb



WAIT WAIT WAITThere's really a place called Farmville? I must see this place.






FU Boy



Noticed that too, and Google street view shows it to be quite unimpressive.






bggb



Then there's no time for me to waste!






Dennis Menace



There was an earthquake?






tijuanatornado



Well, I've got friends in Montreal, Canada who felt it.  Damn it. I could swear I only pressed once to this update...






splicernyc



Run down the stairs of my building first, tell building manager to go fuck himself later when he says "go back to your desks".






Madly Hatting



I can't wait to go on facebook and read everyone's status about the earthquake, so enlightening.






ButtPlugs



2012 is among us!!!!!!!!!!!






power point



oh nyc. you didn't feel a real earthquake. get over yourself.






Guest



leave our imaginary earthquakes alone! :'-(






Roger_the_Shrubber



If the Atlantic suddenly recedes at Rockaway, I'm outta here.






Guest



Herbert George: the Martians have finally awakened.  they were lying underneath the nation's capital all this time! shocking? not really...






JoanAngelson



We were having sex and it was amazing. The rattling and shaking was wonderful.






TheOtherBob



"I've had girls tell me the Earth moved before, but this is ridiculous!"






HymietownHero



Pics or it didn't happen.






FU Boy



No offense, but if you need an earthquake to help with the shaking in bed, you may want to talk to your man about his performance...






diablofreak



is the indian point nuclear power plant still around?






jibbly



uuuuuuuuuh.......don't jinx that shit, dude......






Natalie Whatley



http://jmckinley.posterous.com...






bklyntom



Still convinced it was just a Fed Ex truck driving by my house.  Not serious.






Ruthie



never forget 8/23/11 the day they evacuated the brooklyn ikea






Mike Larsen



you all say the same, - sad stupid americans






H.e. Pennypacker



how's this for a sad, stupid american response:go fuck yourself buddy.






BrooklynDnB



And you generalists all say the same thing also. Be original.






Mike Larsen



dude this is oneway communication, i actually needed some info - and all you get from the general american overhere apparently is "I felt it to" who are you guys talking to? or are you just shouting meaningless bs out into thin air?






hotstepper



you come to Gothamist for info? well joke's on you, dumbass!






BrooklynDnB



Meaningless bs!!! This is the Internet lol






HymietownHero



I got your general American communication right here.






Robert Joseph



Gothamist- about an hour late to the party.






garnetlove



They prob evacuated instead of posting immediately. Imagine that...






Robert Joseph



Bullshit.






theevilerone



We need some on the ground reporting. Is my local liquor store okay!?!?!






whatidsay



Yeah, it's intact. Shaken, not stirred.






Pandatron900



i didn't feel it.....






soothsayer



chinese omens are always correct regarding natural disaster and political upheavals. Looks like Obama's time is up.






Atomic Girl



soothsayer, why do you go around various news sites copying and pasting the same drivel over and over again? Are you that much of a loser? You're also posting as "soothsayer01" at the Daily News and countless other sites. Do you have a life other than copying and pasting the same comments all the time?






AlexTheOriginalPartyDog



Atomic Girl, why do you go around to various news sites to read the comments sections?  Are you that much of a...and so on and so forth






Roger_the_Shrubber



That was his approval ratings falling through the earth's crust.






Vincent Watkins



I GUESS SO .......BUT I FELT IT, MY APT BUILDING WAS SHAKING I THOUGHT I WAS GOING CRAZY FOR A SECOND






etypical



so this has nothing to do with my late morning wake and bake?






pvbklyn



Not my first earthquake but it feels weird though here in Brooklyn






Mike Larsen



anyone know a site for news bout if there where any building went down. My friend lives in Bushwick in a old piece of shit building, and he went offline same time as the shake






Leury Hidalgo



extreme ass-shaking over here






Spirit of 76



Co-workers were freaking out. I barely felt anthing. I've felt much stronger shaking and rocking during any given subway ride.






Kimberley Truelove



I agree.  I was in the grocery store and didn't feel a damn thing.  Next thing I know they're evacuating the precinct across the street.  Is it really that big of a deal?






nomadnewyork



Yes, a severe earthquake in NYC would be catastrophic. Our buildings are not built for earthquakes.






Kimberley Truelove



I'd hardly call it severe.






Sugarbop



And after seeing the panic in some people (myself included), neither are the people :(






Militant Conformist



http://xkcd.com/723/






Dan



Got a call from home (Brooklyn) saying the apartment was shaking, then I felt it on the Upper West Side.






Tim Geoghegan



Williamsburg felt the quake, like, 2 years ago. Pffft.






Mariah



Anybody know anything about a potential aftershock?






Claire Gonzales



felt it too... grabbed my kids and sat on d couch...






Tim Geoghegan



You should probably stand under a door arch or go outside next time. Even a Room & Board full-grain leather sectional doesn't offer much protection in a powerful quake.






physicsandknives



I thought my overweight tenants were making my house shake. =X I guess that makes me a vain person.






infomofo



Our building sways whenever the wind picks up, so I wouldn't have even noticed it except I was on a conf call with toronto and they felt it there too- right at the same time.






katiebaker



felt it for about ten seconds in oceanside,ny. i thought a truck hit the building






Paul L



Am I the only one who didn't feel anything?






onsugarhill



I didn't feel it either, and when we were evacuated I was incredibly confused.  I'm so disappointed - I've always wanted to feel an earthquake!My mom called from Michigan to make sure I was ok, though, which was quite entertaining.






daniel clifford



Send money, rations and aid immediately!






TeddyNYC



You mean in addition to the rent money?






sgod



No. I felt nothing. Disappointing.  I think I was in the basement or the elevator at the time. Somehow, I didn't feel anything, but when I got upstairs I was wondering why everyone was out in the hallway and stuff.






chuzzlewit



called family in VA about 30 miles from the epicenter - they were in their car and had felt nothing, didn't believe me. then as i'm talking to them they start to realize that everyone is outside of all the buildings they're passing...






soundfreak



Brings back memories of Cali.






Dan Smith



BREAKING NEWS: Chris Christie has officially jumped into the Presidential race!






asakasan



http://sadtrombone.com/






LtWorf



Zing! Well Done.






CityFace



Stealing that!






jibbly



That crazy dude was right!  The Rapture is upon us!  Repent sinners!






O



My mom felt it, she is in upstate NY






TheOtherBob



I...no, I'm just not even going to go there.






wonderchimp5



Nothing makes you feel more vulnerable than being naked during an earthquake.






Colonel_Ingus



We were simulnaked!






ThisGuySeemsLegit



Earthquake survivors -- meet at the Shake Shack!






O2C



Felt in on the 8th floor in Downtown Brooklyn.  Wasn't sure it was an earthquake until I saw the door shaking.






TeddyNYC



For a few seconds I was wondering if the ceiling of my apt here in Brooklyn Heights would come down on my head.






H.e. Pennypacker



Yeah, that was fucking weird.






SPsGhost



Didn't feel anything either. I'm willing to bet the vast majority of people who did were inside shitty old buildings.






nomadnewyork



I am in a shitty old building in Manhattan and I felt it. I'm all shook up.






nycpwt



I'm in a shitty old building and the damn thing swayed.






angry_pickle



If you were on the upper floors of a building old or new, you would have felt it.






Len_Drexler



I think someone might have been bragging that he lives or works in a century old, solidly built masterpiece.






Shaya E



They're supposed to sway. Thank your structural engineer!






Mister Mackin



damn straight, me too






chuzzlewit



F= MA






FU Boy



The force of a moving object doesn't really apply here.  Wave theory calculations such as u(x,t) = F(x-vt) are more applicable.  Although even that is simplistic because it only accounts for two-dimensional waves and earthquakes generate spherical (three-dimensional) waves.






asakasan



Are you kidding? A shear force is applied to a building, and the building moves, that acceleration is from the applied force. Of course Newton's Laws apply during earthquakes.






chuzzlewit



in structures seismic has to be treated as a lateral force since as you say it's very complex, so it's given as a shear force at the base of the building.






FU Boy



Poor planning if that's what we're accepting as engineering standards for earthquake preparedness.  They hit as much up/down as they do side-to-side.






chuzzlewit



well, some of it is that a building is already implicitly designed to handle vertical loads. that and $$.






Christopher Avery



Didnt feel it in manhattan -- ground level near columbus circle






nycpwt



Oh and the largest quake in 40 years hit Colorado this morning. Interesting.






Guest



HOLY SHIT, DID YOU FEEL THAT SHIT!?!






Mister Mackin



felt it at a public school at 135th in harlem...building shaking, a few light fixtures swaying, two distinct powerful surges, probably 10-20 seconds combined.  haven't felt an earthquake since i lived in the philippines as a child!






Wishme



Friend up in New Hampshire felt it as well. Sources say that it was as strong as 4.0 in Philly. crazy.






Brian Todd Campbell



It certainly felt that strong here. My rowhouse was shaking like crazy and I thought it was going to fall down. I thought my neighbors were hammering like crazy or something.






AlexTheOriginalPartyDog



You thought your house might collapse and you attributed that to hammering by your neighbors?  Who the hell lives next door??






jaycjay



And, what kind of hammer do they have?






nomadnewyork



According to reports, there were two separate earthquakes today, one in Colorado 5.2, one in Virginia 5.8 felt from North Carolina to Toronto. That's what I know so far.






jaycjay



Two "significant" earthquakes, I guess, big enough to felt some distance away. But actually a lot more than that. There was a 2.2 centered upstate this morning, and two 2.4 quakes, one in California and one in Nevada. And in Colorado there were actually several different quakes of various intensities.






nomadnewyork



Wow!






ocm123



Well, the Cali and Nevada quakes don't mean much. There are numerous small quakes a day in those states. There have been 338 quakes (over 1) in those two states over the past week, which is not unusual. http://earthquake.usgs.gov/ear...






sendroses



thankyou everyone for the updates, here on long island, nassau county we felt a strong tremmer lasting 3 seconds and shook my statues on the shelves in my living room, it hit at about 1:57 pmagain, thank you for posting people, keeping in touch is a blessing!






CityFace



Colorado was last night.  Virginia's the one we felt.






chuzzlewit



OMG! -Charlton Heston, Ava Gardner, George Kennedy, Geneviève Bujold, Lorne Greene, Richard Roundtree, Marjoe Gortner, Barry Sullivan, Lloyd Nolan, Victoria Principal, Walter Matthau






Tim Geoghegan



Right now, some very smart NYC contractor is updating his website to read 'earthquake-proofing specialists.'






Adrienne Clark



Felt it in Ohio as well






wss233



bullshit, you felt nothing.






Adrienne Clark



you don't even know where Ohio is. STFU.






Adrienne Clark



http://www.wkyc.com/ No need for me to lie about this






Militant Conformist



You re-transplanted hipster






Adrienne Clark



Funny.






Adrienne Clark



http://www.wkyc.com/






edgie168



i just farted. sorry guys. my bad.






John Blakeslee



Felt it in Connecticut too






WorksInDUMBO



yep! our building in DUMBO was swaying for about 10 seconds. Felt like being in a boat.






shinobishaw



Felt it as well and jam up here in river dale!






hotstepper



sorry guys that was me. beans, you know how it goes...






Roger_the_Shrubber



Felt it too. Thought I was dreaming at first. "And there will be great earthquakes in various places, and famines and pestilences; and there will be fearful sights and great signs from heaven." Luke 21:11






robingee



"No one whose testicles are crushed or whose male organ is cut off shall enter the assembly of the Lord."






Candace



We felt it here in Morgantown, WV.






Burton Bonafide Lancaster



Charlotte NC felt it for a few seconds






Kathryn Nowlan



We felt it up here in Providence, RI!






weatherxveins



We felt it in Astoria too! I thought I had really lost it for a minute..






Eric Tarn



what is astoria?






FU Boy



I'm not surprised you'd ask that.  Only the cool people know what it is.






Jennifer Cardigan



What is Brooklyn?






pillow_case



That's just the result of america getting fatter.






youngpro



that was bloomberg pissed at not getting his sugar drinks ban for welfarers passed.






pillow_case



A bit of a stretch...






diablofreak



RAPTURE!!!!!!!






Izzy Dávila



Felt it in Queens as well!






youngpro



what is queens?






Erik Kayhart



yep






RussiansAnonymous



I thought I was just hung over from a boat cruise I went on last night! So crazy.






Stephanie Pearson



felt it and I thought I was having vertigo - on the 52nd floor balcony of my building.






Jen Chung



YIKES






Stephanie Pearson



I was smoking a cigarette and I thought it was a nicotine buzz.






wdunleavy



blog first ask questions later






diablofreak



i facebooked it while the ground was still shaking






Sara G



Ditto!  Sitting at my desk, i thought i was going crazy! Couldn't figure out why my monitors were shakin, freaky.






Mr. Know-It-All



I'm still white knuckling my desk. Can I let go now?






theevilerone



Stay tuned for the aftershocks!






Roger_the_Shrubber



And tsunamis.






Guest



what the fuck is that shit!? oh, hello~ Google.






FU Boy



I think you're safe now - I was looking around my desk wondering what the hell was happening.






LtWorf



It's brownpants time! (Seriously, I was on the toilet when it happened)






Jobin Tomlan



I was on the toilet too. I thought it was work on the 7th ave subway.  we had a simul-dump!






louis johnson



i didn't feel anything.... but yah if i did i thot it was the subway......






Mr. Know-It-All



Being on the toilet at the onset of a natural disaster is one of my greatest fears.






AzzTech



I have to go, but am still holding it in.






LtWorf



Likewise, but I'd think after a good dump I'd feel good enough to take on any natural disaster. Bring it on mother nature!






wdunleavy



william dunleavy






dollarmenu



Matt... Damon.






colonelcasey



Felt it too...I thought I was just not feeling good after lunch.






Mike Pants



Felt it!






Macfinger



brace yourselves all ~ it's only the beginning !





blog comments powered by Disqus






« Previous
Home






 



send a tip

Got something to share? Let us know!
From


tips@gothamist.com




       The day's most popular stories from Gothamist every evening in your inbox from our newsletter. Plus weekly event listings on Mondays!
    


EMAIL  (required)






about
staff / advertising / contact / newsmap




newsmap




subscribe
        Use an RSS reader to stay up to date with the latest news and posts from Gothamist.
        			

add gothamist
 
        					Yahoo
 
        					NewsGator
 
        					Bloglines
 
        					Feedster
 
        					Google


















        © 2003-2010 Gothamist LLC. All rights reserved. Terms of Use & Privacy Policy.







 


