 5.8 Magnitude Earthquake Hits Virginia, Washington D.C., NYC 2011 




Society > News and Society > News and society > 5.8 Magnitude Earthquake Hits Virginia, Washington D.C., NYC 2011



















Phoenix Rose


Become a Fan
Send Private Message
Shoutbox






Mary Rose


2011/08/24 
| 554 views
| 0



  5.8 Magnitude Earthquake Hits Virginia, Washington D.C., NYC 2011  




Email


Share


Favorite

RePublish article



Tweet













 
 A 5.8 magnitude earthquake hit Virginia at 1:51 pm EDT and was felt across much of the East Coast on Tuesday, August 23, 2011, causing terrifying consequences from Washington D.C. to New York.
Hundreds of thousands of people had been forced to evacuate buildings including the Pentagon and the White House for fear they could collapse.
The quake was the third strongest along the East Coast in recorded history and the strongest since World War II.
Though no deaths, serious injuries or tsunami warning have been immediately reported after the huge natural disaster, the air and train traffic was disrupted across the Northeast and mid-Atlantic.
Another 4.2 magnitude aftershock struck Mineral, Virginia just several hours after the first earthquake.
All memorials and monuments on the National Mall were closed for inspections.
 

The US earthquake map. According to the the U.S. Geological Survey, the earthquake occurred at a depth of about 0.1 miles


Three pinnacles at the top fell off the 30-story-tall central tower at the National Cathedral, the highest building in Washington D.C.


Debris covers the aisle floor at the Miller's mart food store in Mineral, Virginia


Debris can be seen outside the Ecquador Embassy in Washington D.C.
 

Staff run from the Pentagon after the earthquake, and think it was an attack


Office workers gather on a sidewalk after their building was evacuated following the earthquake in New York


Office workers gather on the sidewalk in downtown Washington


People gather at open space after the earthquake


Children are evacuated from the Jacob K. Javits Federal building in New York on Tuesday after the earthquake
 

National monuments in Washington, typically bustling with tourists, are empty after they were cleared by park officials


People gather for safety in a garden in Lower Manhattan after the earthquake
 

Part of a library's roof in Washington D.C. crumbles during the earthquake
 

Workers stand in Foley Square park in New York after the earthquake
 

US Capitol Police officers take control the streets outside the US Capitol in Washington, D.C.
 

A bride in her wedding dress runs from the courthouse in Lower Manhattan in New York after feeling the terrifying shake
 

Many cars in Virginia had been destroyed completely after the quake
 

Christopher Hartman covers the chimney of his dad’s office in Mineral, Virginia with a tarpaulin after it was destroyed by the quake
 




Earthquake Hits Virginia, New York and Washington DC
 
Related links:
8.9-Magnitude Earthquake Hit Japan
Japan Needs Help After Quake-Tsunami Disaster
4.4 & 5.2 Magnitude Earthquakes Strike Southern Spain, 10 Dead



Article Source: http://society.ezinemark.com/58-magnitude-earthquake-hits-virginia-washington-dc-nyc-2011-7736f799e3f6.html




 Author Box 




Mary Rose has 242 articles online  and 4 fans                 
Mary Rose is currently a lecturer on society. In her free time, Mary is fond of joining social activities. Her goal is to provide up-to-date news and articles on society and culture.




Become a Fan
Send Private Message
Shoutbox
RePublish article






 Print article 
 Report 


 SHARE:    
 Del.icio.us 
 Digg 
 Mixx 
Yahoo! 
 Facebook 
 Linkedln 








Add New Comment
5.8 Magnitude Earthquake Hits Virginia, Washington D.C., NYC 2011




Log in or Create Account to post a comment.

 
 
 



*



*




Security Code:



 Change Image 






















 Related searches: 
  5.8 Magnitude Earthquake Hits Virginia, Washington D.C., NYC 2011  

Virginia earthquake   East Coast earthquake   America earthquake   Virginia earthquake pictures 2011   earthquake usa 2011   earthquake in virginia   earthquake in new york   earthquake in nyc   earthquake in washington dc 






 Related Articles  
5.8 Magnitude Earthquake Hits Virginia, Washington D.C., NYC 2011
   2010 - Let The Earthquakes Begin 
 Publisher: Ernie Fitzpatrick 
 It seems as though Mother Nature is out of sorts somehow. Could it be that we've done something to the planet that Gaia isn't happy with, and we need to awaken and change?

   Top 10 Heavy Losses From Earthquakes 
 Publisher: Mary Rose 
 The official figure of damage in the earthquake resulting tsunami and aftershocks in Japan, 11/03 has not been declared. On 23/03, The Cabinet Office of Japan estimated $309bn overall losses while World Bank offered it reached at $239bn. Furthermore, it’s necessary to keep an eye on insurance company’s role in aftershocks. Robert Hartwig, president of the Insurance Information Institute said: “Prior to today's earthquake, insured earthquake losses worldwide, dating back to February 2010, totaled an estimated $23 billon."

   Powerful Earthquake Killed At Least 65 in New Zealand 
 Publisher: Mary Rose 
 New Zealand's second largest city of Christchurch has been hit by a strong earthquake for the second time in five months. Unlike the 7.1 magnitude quake which caused no deaths in September last year, the earthquake on Tuesday, January 22 has made a lot of buildings collapsed and taken away the life of many people. There are also many fatalities and people trapped beneath rubble and sparking fires in the destroyed city. Measuring 6.3 in magnitude, the deadly earthquake occurred during lunch hour in local time when streets and shops and offices were full of people. The center of the quake was reported to be 10 miles southwest of Christchurch. Let’s have a look at several photos as following to see what is now happening in the unlucky region.

   Washington DC Accident Attorney 
 Publisher: Warren Brown 
 For enable when you need to have it most Unexpected injuries have the capability to wreak havoc on your personal, expert, and financial well-becoming. It can take months, if not years, to set your life back on course after a significant accident. A single of the smartest moves to make if you have suffered an injury simply because of a person else's negligence or carelessness is consulting a personal injury attorney. Mr. Lapidus' courtroom skills are exceptional. In my case, I ...

   Tsunami Hitting Fukushima in Latest Images 
 Publisher: Mary Rose 
 It has been two months since the devastating 9.0 magnitude earthquake and tsunami hit Northeastern Japan on March 11, 2011. The tsunami was not only sweeping anything on its path including houses, cars, farm buildings, and so on but also seriously destroyed the Japan’s Fukushima Daiichi nuclear plants. The occurrence causes Japan nuclear accident be the world’s most devastating nuclear disaster since Chernobyl and Three Mile Island. The Tokyo Electric Power Company has recently released a chain of picture showing tsunami striking Fukushima nuclear plant on March 11. These newly photos illustrate how the tsunami breach the barrier offshore and pouring over the house.

   Japanese Earthquake and Tsunami: Moving Images of Survivors 
 Publisher: Mary Rose 
 After the massive earthquake and tsunami devastated the cost of eastern Japan, many people have to live without shelter, food, running water or power. They are facing the most terrible moments in their lives. There are also many people who were exposed to radiation after the Fukushima reactor blast. During this time, we can see the images of Japanese unfortunate residents share vital needs to survive. These days, members of the armed forces and rescue workers are also trying to find and help survivors escape from the wreckage of ruined houses and overcome the earthquake aftermath. These photos as below show you the moving images of survivors of the Japanese tsunami.

   A Powerful Earthquake Struck One Of New Zealand 
 Publisher: power balance 
 A powerful earthquake struck one of New Zealand"??s biggest cities Tuesday at the height of a busy workday, toppling tall buildings and churches, crushing buses and killing at least 65 people in one of the country"??s worst natural disasters.

   Earthquake-Tsunami in Japan: At Least 384 Deaths and Thousands of Houses Destroyed 
 Publisher: Mary Rose 
 The massive 8.9 magnitude earthquake which struck Japan and sent a devastating tsunami across the country continues to cause heavy casualties. According to Jiji Press news agency on March 11, 2011, the data collected by the police shows total dead and missing people are about 1000 people and now at least 384 people were found losing their lives, 947 injured in this natural disaster. Besides, it is reported that 100 people and their ships swept away by tsunami while a train with an unknown number of passengers aboard also disappeared. In addition to casualty figures, the earthquake plus tsunami led to severe consequences for Japanese people including more than 80 incidents of fire caused by the earthquake around Tokyo, Iwate, Miyagi, Akita and Fukushima prefectures and Kyodo.

   Devastating Nature Disasters in 2011 
 Publisher: Mary Rose 
 2011 is a year of natural disasters. From Japan’s terrible earthquake to Australia’s flood, from Iowa’s tornado to Brazil’s mudslide, such wake up of nature cause serious damage to both human loss and economy development

   Outstanding News in Pictures: 10 August 2011 
 Publisher: Mary Rose 
 All breaking news and outstanding events on August 10, 2011 in the world are excellently captured in the following impressive images
























 Life After Tropical Storm Irene (Photo)














 Libya's 2011 Bloody Civil War Timeline














 Most Expensive and Biggest Parties














 Outstanding News in Pictures: August 29, 2011














 Elisabetta Canalis: Dancing With The Stars 2011














 Kristin Cavallari: Dancing With The Stars 2011














 Michael Jackson Turns 53 on August 29














 Tiger Woods' Ex-Wife Dating a Play-boy














 Jennifer and Justin Together in New Home














 Monika Lewczuk: Miss Supranational 2011














 Cast Full List of Dancing with the Stars 2011














 Colorful Notting Hill Carnival in London














 Powerful Images of 9/11 by Richard Drew














 Hope Solo: Dancing With The Stars 2011














 U.N. Agency's Warn of a New Bird Flu in Asia














 Britney Spears' Outfits at MTV VMAs














 Hurricane Irene Hits US, 18 Dead














 Beyonce’s 2011 MTV VMA Performance














 Lady GaGa’s 2011 MTV VMA Performance














 Stars Gather at the 2011 MTV VMAs








 New Articles 







News and society










News and Society








  1.  Richest People in The World 2011 
  2.  Outstanding News in Pictures: September 3, 2011 
  3.  Most Impressive Plasticine Busts of Celebrities 
  4.  Hollywood’s Sexiest Celebrity Butts 
  5.  Weirdest Twins Stories in The World 
  6.  2011 Venice Film Festival: Best Dressed List 
  7.  Hollywood’s Shortest Celebrity Marriages 
  8.  Outstanding News in Pictures: September 2, 2011 
  9.  Nick Lachey and Vanessa Minnillo: Inside Their New Luxury Mansion 
  10.  World’s Most Powerful Women in Media 2011 








News and society










News and Society








  1.  Happy Labor Day! 
  2.  Cool Barack Obama 
  3.  Padmanabha Swamy Temple Musings 
  4.  Ganeshaspeaks Horoscopes 
  5.  Memorials of September 11 Across the U.S (Photos) 
  6.  Effective Ways Celebrities Save Mother Earth 
  7.  Most Extraordinary Coincidences Around The World 
  8.  Taylor Swift’s New Estate in Nashville (Photos) 
  9.  Web Application Development Company - Create Custom APIs for Website 
  10.  Car batteries on the way to jump-start gas mileage 














        	 Welcome, Guest!       Log In  | Create Account 



















All ArticlesBusinessEducationLifestyleVehicleJobsEntertainmentTechnologyHealthSocietyTravelVideo








 Favorite 
Bookmark 
 RSS 



   
   
   
   
   
   
   






  Home  
    Top Authors   
 Top Articles 
   Community   
   Blog   
   Submit Article
					  
   Submit Video
                      









 Need help 
Editorial Guidelines 
Submit articles 
 FAQ 
Become Member
Contact us


 Popular topics 
Travel 
Self Improvement
Computer
Public Relation
Online Promotion 


 EzineMark sites 
Content Widget 
EzineMark Video
RSS 
Top articles 
Top authors


 More information 
Terms & conditions
Privacy Policy 
Advertise with us
Partner with us
About us


 Copyright (c)2005-2009  EzineMark.com . All rights reserved.

 


