  Virginia Earthquake : News | Reviews | Trends

 



6 
 Sep  
 2011 

News | Reviews | Trends


Articles
Responses




Home
About us
Contact us
News
Trends
Reviews
Breaking News
Celebrity News
IT News
World News
 









Sep : 4 : 2011 - Kim KardashianAug : 26 : 2011 - Mosquitoes ‘disappearing’ in some parts of AfricaAug : 26 : 2011 - Minka Kelly, Derek Jeter SplitAug : 23 : 2011 - Virginia EarthquakeAug : 23 : 2011 - Staples, Best Buy, HP sell out of HP TouchPads





Virginia Earthquake



Virginia Earthquake














Virginia 5.9 earthquake was felt in Washington, New York, North Carolina
WASHINGTON – A magnitude 5.9 earthquake centered in Virginia forced the evacuation of all the monuments on the National Mall in Washington and shook the nerves of Georgia to Martha Vineyard Island in Massachusetts, where President Barack Obama is on vacation. No injuries were reported immediately.
The U.S. Geological Survey said the quake was half a mile deep and centered near Louisa, Virginia, about 40 miles northwest of Richmond. Tremor was felt in the White House and throughout the east coast to the south of Chapel Hill, NC around the Pentagon, the White House and Capitol were evacuated.
Two nuclear reactors at the North Anna power station in the same county at the epicenter automatically taken offline for security systems around the time of the earthquake, said Roger Hannah, spokesman for the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission .
The power plant operated domain is running out of the four emergency diesel generators, which are the power supply for safety critical equipment. Hannah said the agency did not immediately notice any damage to nuclear power plants in the Southeast.
Obama and many of the nation’s leaders were out of town on vacation in August, when the earthquake occurred at 1:51 pm EDT. The tremor was felt in the golf Martha’s Vineyard and Obama had just begun a round.
At the Pentagon, in Virginia, a low noise integrated and built to the point that the building was shaking. People were running in the halls of the largest building in the government and the continuous agitation were shouts of “evacuate! Evacuate!” The Pentagon has deemed safe for return.
U.S. National Park Service evacuated and closed all the monuments on the National Mall and monuments. Reagan National Airport outside Washington, ceiling tiles fell for a few seconds of shaking. The authorities said it was an earthquake and all flights were suspended.
In New York, the 26-story federal courthouse in Manhattan began rolling and hundreds of people were seen leaving the building. Court officials were not letting people back in.
New York react to the tremors of the earthquake in Virginia
The earthquake came a day after an earthquake in Colorado dropped food off the shelves and caused minor damage to homes in the southern part of the state and northern New Mexico. No injuries were reported as aftershocks continued Tuesday.
In Charleston, West Virginia, hundreds of workers left the state Capitol building and employees in other office buildings in the center were asked to leave temporarily.
“The whole building shook,” said Jennifer Bundy, spokeswoman for the state Supreme Court. “You could feel different two shakes. Everyone just a little wine for his own.”
In Ohio, where office buildings swayed in Columbus and Cincinnati and hit the newsroom in the field of progressive Cleveland Indians. At least one building near the Legislature was evacuated in downtown Columbus.
In downtown Baltimore, the quake sent office workers in the street, where street lamps swayed a little, as they called friends and family to check in.
The East Coast earthquake
Social media site Twitter lit up with reports of the earthquake of people using the site up and down the U.S. east coast.
“People coming out of buildings and on sidewalks and in Farragut Park in downtown DC …,” Republican strategist Kevin Madden Twitter.
“How did you feel the earthquake in NY? Started in Richmond, VA” Twitter Arianna Huffington, president and editor in chief of the Huffington Post Media Group.
John Gurlach, air traffic controller in the Morgantown Municipal Airport was in a tower 40 meters high, when the earth shook.
“There were two of us looking at each other saying, What is that? “He said, even as a passenger plane was landing.” It was remarkable agitation. It felt like a burst of B-52. ”
Immediately, the phone rang from the nearest airport in Clarksburg, and a computer began spitting green strips of paper -. “After the quake” alerts from other airports in New York and Washington ground stops issued
Number of View :436












 







Categories: Breaking News, News, Reviews, Trends, US News, World News 




One Response so far.




 Hannah Labounta says: 

			September 2, 2011 at 3:46 am 
great blog. cheers for posting oldemotherhubbards.com is a amazing website ive come across.

Reply 









Leave a Reply

Click here to cancel reply.


Name (required)

Mail (required)

Website














Featured Video




 Popular 	
  Recent  	
     Random   




Harry Potter and the...
  Posted on Aug - 1 - 2011
11 Comments




Top 10 Celebrities Searches
  Posted on Aug - 5 - 2011
2 Comments




31 US special forces...
  Posted on Aug - 6 - 2011
1 Comment




Selena Gomez Anger Statement...
  Posted on Aug - 14 - 2011
1 Comment




Kimberley Walsh Image Issues
  Posted on Aug - 11 - 2011
1 Comment






Kim Kardashian
  Posted on Sep - 4 - 2011
0 Comment




Mosquitoes ‘disappearing’ in some...
  Posted on Aug - 26 - 2011
0 Comment




Minka Kelly, Derek Jeter...
  Posted on Aug - 26 - 2011
0 Comment




Virginia Earthquake
  Posted on Aug - 23 - 2011
1 Comment




Staples, Best Buy, HP...
  Posted on Aug - 23 - 2011
0 Comment






Star Russell Armstrong found...
  Posted on Aug - 16 - 2011
0 Comment




31 US special forces...
  Posted on Aug - 6 - 2011
1 Comment




Kim Kardashian
  Posted on Sep - 4 - 2011
0 Comment




D.B. Cooper: FBI Investigating...
  Posted on Aug - 1 - 2011
0 Comment




Cameron Enjoys
  Posted on Aug - 20 - 2011
1 Comment



 


Twitter updates
 Princess Laila Salma the wife of Moroccan king Mohamed VI who was invited in the wedding of Prince William and... http://t.co/nSYubzh # 1 hour ago A young man in Germany known as “Cannibal Killer” kidnapped the two helpless teenagers, a 14 year-old teen,... http://t.co/cAQx0PL # 6 hours ago Would you believe that An Indian Father Raped Her Step Daughter.An Indian man in Delhi was sentenced seven years... http://t.co/NlFQWDf # 11 hours ago Girl Saves Man With A Kiss In China : World is Best http://t.co/ITVBc6t # 12 hours ago Jeter has been known almost as much for their celebrity relationships as it is for his skill with baseball. After debu…http://t.co/d4Jvrhu # 15 hours ago 


 Sponsors 

























Popular post by viewMinka Kelly, Derek Jeter Split - 2747 hitsKendall Jenner - 2320 hitsMeta 
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org

Link With Us Human Edited Web Directory - Magazines
Directory of the Web

Search Engine Submission - AddMe

PagesInventory - directory
 
 
 





Copyright © 2011 News | Reviews | Trends - Newses.us.
Website Design by Fab Themes.


This blog is protected by Dave's Spam Karma 2: 277  Spams eaten and counting...




