USGS radius effects of Virginia 5.8 earthquake | The Extinction Protocol: 2012 and beyond






The Extinction Protocol: 2012 and beyond


2012 and Earthchanges News events



Skip to content
HomeLearn more: The Extinction Protocol book







← New study reveals how microbes travel the Earth on the wind
USGS completes monitoring system for Oregon’s Newberry volcano →


USGS radius effects of Virginia 5.8 earthquake

Posted on August 24, 2011 by The Extinction Protocol 


 

August 24, 2011 – VIRGINIA - The 5.8 magnitude Virginia earthquake of 2011 occurred at 1:51 p.m. (EDT) Tuesday, Aug. 23, in the Central Virginia Seismic Zone, which is believed to have produced the strongest magnitude in the history of Virginia in May 1897, a 5.9 earthquake in Giles County. The U.S. Geological Survey says the area has produced “small and moderate earthquakes since at least the 18th century.” The last known earthquake to have originated from the zone’s epicenter occurred in 1875, when effective seismographs were not invented, but the damage from the shock suggested that it had a magnitude of about 4.8, USGS said. “The 1875 earthquake shook bricks from chimneys, broke plaster and windows, and overturned furniture at several locations,” the agency’s statement said. Another earthquake from the Central Virginia Seismic Zone that caused minor damage occurred Dec. 9, 2003, and had a magnitude 4.5. Though Virginia earthquakes rarely have caused injury, tremors can be felt over a wide region. “East of the Rockies, an earthquake can be felt over an area as much as 10 times larger than a similar magnitude earthquake on the West Coast,” USGS stated. –IB Times




								Eco World Content From Across The Internet.
							


								Featured on EcoPressed
							

								Mental Health and Climate Change
							




Advertisement

Share this:ShareStumbleUponRedditDiggLinkedInFacebookEmailLike this:LikeOne blogger likes this post. 

						This entry was posted in Earth Changes, Earth Watch, Landslide & geological deformation, Seismic tremors. Bookmark the permalink.											


← New study reveals how microbes travel the Earth on the wind
USGS completes monitoring system for Oregon’s Newberry volcano →


26 Responses to USGS radius effects of Virginia 5.8 earthquake




 The Extinction Protocol says: 

			August 24, 2011 at 11:19 am 
Earthquake felt in Rhode Island:



Reply 





 The Extinction Protocol says: 

			August 24, 2011 at 11:21 am 
Earthquake felt in Michigan: 



Reply 





 Stephen says: 

			August 24, 2011 at 11:40 am 
Hi Alvin,
Does this incident confirm that our solar system is travelling in a turbulent region? And does this have anything to do with solar flares? And if an earthquake of that magnitude, 5.9, occurs only once in a span of a hundred years, can we really say that “inactive” fault lines have awaken? Because I guess this 5.9 will not happen again only until another hundred years, so maybe fault lines in this area are not really that active?


Reply 





 The Extinction Protocol says: 

			August 24, 2011 at 1:41 pm 
Stephen,
Well, turbulent as it applies to space means increased radiant energy fluxes and or debris fields (comets, asteroids, ect) since space is a vacuum and yes, we should be experiencing a degree of both over the next few years. I believe this is unrelated to solar flares. There were none occurring at the time the Colorado or the Virginia earthquakes struck. However, look at planet Earth and you’ll find it is a catastrophic model. There are volcanoes and mountain ranges under Antarctica, so the land mass could not have formed under ice 2 miles thick. The oceans are also a relatively recent geological feature- as the Pacific and Atlantic are both examples, in my mind, of collapsed lithospheric basins. The mountains around the world are the results of violent uplifts, volcanoes, geological upheaval or plate collisions. The Great Lakes were gorged by ice as was the Grand Canyon by water. Violent super volcanic eruptions occurred in Chile, Argentina, Colorado, Yellowstone, Lake Tabo, Lake Taupo, Canada, China, and Japan. The Hawaiian Islands, as were numerous others in the world’s oceans, were formed by underwater volcanic activity. Meanwhile on land, fiery volcanoes tear at the surface of the earth from Vanuatu to Easter Island. We enjoy the benefits of what we assume is a calm, sane, relatively peaceful world only at the expense of the unimaginable geological horrors in the past that created it. So yes, the Earth’s surface contains innumerable faults, cracks and geologic fissures and many of these can lay dormant for hundreds or even thousands of years before being reactivated. If anything, we’re returning to the a new period of geologic catastrophism as I have been warning about for years and this process will see the ignition of many new earthquakes and volcanoes and the fragmentation of major land masses. Immanuel Velikovsky’s  posthumous book Mankind in Amnesia describes the collective amnesia humanity has suffered from over the years in the pursuit of progress at the expense of wiping out what it thought was inferior indigenous cultures, along with many of their oral and written histories of past catastrophes.  
Hope all is well,
Alvin


Reply 





 NickK0 says: 

			August 24, 2011 at 5:03 pm 
I remember when Immanuel Velikovsky was dismissed as a crackpot…… and still is, really. 
He may well be, a crackpot, and a charlatan.
However, his theories are intriguing…. and are worth investingating, IMO.
- Nick












 Shawnta says: 

			August 24, 2011 at 11:48 am 
We are in Greenbelt, MD, and we felt moderate to strong shaking for 3-5 minutes.
We were terrified…I can only imagine what Japan must have experienced. 
We are all safe…no harm done.


Reply 





 The Extinction Protocol says: 

			August 24, 2011 at 1:02 pm 
Good to hear Shawnta. Thanks for weighing in as always.  
God bless,
Alvin


Reply 





 Rick says: 

			August 24, 2011 at 3:06 pm 
No Shawnta, it was only 30-45 seconds, max…it may have FELT like 3-5 minutes to you, but I live closer to the epicenter (Northern Virginia) than you and it wasn’t as long as you indicate. 
That said, this was my first moderate quake experience and it’s something I will not soon forget!  
Alvin, Mankind in Amnesia is indeed a great book–I read it back in the ’70s along with Earth in Upheaval and highly recommend both.  Velikovsky was ridiculed for his belief in
catastrophism but has been vindicated over time.
Al


Reply 





 The Extinction Protocol says: 

			August 24, 2011 at 3:28 pm 
Indeed Rick, and you’re absolutely right about both the books and the Velikovsky’s vindication. 
Take care,
Alvin








 buttercup1976Rose says: 

			August 25, 2011 at 6:35 pm 
Rick I was in my living room and only live 45 minutes from the epi-center. I was sitting at my computer when the shaking started i thought it was my washer at first. My washer sits right on a wall and when unbalanced it will shake the walls like that. Where i live It roared You could hear it like a train. Then my 55 gallon tank started moving and i knew it was an earthquake but it did feel like it was longer than 30 seconds I understand the 3 minutes remark.. It felt like it came in waves. People get scared so give them a break on the time.   It was mild shaking at first and then it intensified and things went flying everywhere. I just hope i never have to deal with that again.












 Susan D. says: 

			August 24, 2011 at 1:36 pm 
Wondering if this quake could give us a heads up on the possibility of the New Madrid shifting?  I live in Mississippi, a couple of hours from Memphis and have always wondered what effect a quake the size of the Virginia quake would have on the middle Mississippi Valley and the states that border the Mississippi River.  I know that there was a huge quake there in the late 1800s that would have been devastating on the populated areas there today.  What should we look for?  Or are we already seeing it?


Reply 





 The Extinction Protocol says: 

			August 24, 2011 at 2:22 pm 
Susan, no the New Madrid is not shifting. It’s a very serious fault from the land mass formation of North America. The North American continent was on the verge of splitting in two basically from the Canada to New Madrid, along something called the Mid-Continent Rift. For whatever reason, probably tectonic plate pressures elsewhere, the process rifted the substrata in the Middle of the U.S. and then ceased. The Madrid Fault is another monster altogether. The Virgina earthquake was only a 5.8 and lasted only a few seconds. The 1811-1812 New Madrid quakes were probably a 7.5 to an 8 and holds the unofficial record (since there were no seismometers) behind the  2004 earthquake (10 minutes) for the longest shaking ever said to accompany an earthquake; 10 to 12 minutes. That’s almost an eternity for a quake to be shaking such a densely populated region- few things would be left standing in its aftermath- Japan’s March 11 earthquake had a duration of about 5 to 6 minutes and look at the damage it did being centered in the ocean. The 1811 New Madrid earthquake was felt as far away as Canada and soil liquefaction also occurred, where the ground instantly turned to liquid. The day New Madrid is hit by a 7 magnitude earthquake or larger is the day an estimated 7 million people in the U.S. will be homeless. Most likely, the quake will come with little or no warning as did the Colorado and Virgina quakes. There are also 15 nuclear power plants in the New Madrid zone so an even greater horror, similar to Japan, could be unleashed in the aftermath of a large earthquake. Not trying to scare you, but if you live in the region, you should have an emergency kit ready with at least 3 days of provisions in it.


Reply 





 Rick says: 

			August 24, 2011 at 3:28 pm 
Alvin, probably just a coincidence, but interesting to note that both the Colorado and Virginia earthquakes were near the 37th parallel and nearly equidistant from the New Madrid area.








 The Extinction Protocol says: 

			August 24, 2011 at 3:31 pm 
That is interesting, Rick…I’ll look at it. Thanks for sharing.












 The Extinction Protocol says: 

			August 24, 2011 at 1:59 pm 
Felt in Washington, DC:



Reply 





 Cynic says: 

			August 24, 2011 at 5:19 pm 
A left leaning web site just posted about the possibility of the quake being caused by fracking. Makes sense to me.
http://www.opednews.com/articles/Did-Fracking-Cause-the-Vir-by-Dr-Stuart-Jeanne-B-110823-993.html


Reply 





 luisport says: 

			August 24, 2011 at 6:55 pm 
ENENEWS Energy News
“Quake sensors removed around Virginia nuke plant due to budget cuts” — Spoke http://bit.ly/o6BUBR #Fukushima
há 55 minutos »
 ENENEWS Energy News
Bloomberg: ‘Hot Spots’ Spreading — Gov’t to check radiation up to 460 km from meltdowns http://bit.ly/nDwF5B #Fukushima
há 1 hora »
 ENENEWS Energy News
Experts concerned about North Anna: “Uncomfortably close” to maximum quake that nuke plant was des http://bit.ly/oKhZ4b #Fukushima
há 7 horas »
 ENENEWS Energy News
SF Chronicle: Nuclear reactors face double threat from quake and hurricane http://bit.ly/mSC5vw #Fukushima
há 12 horas »
 ENENEWS Energy News
Virginia nuke plant venting steam — Spokesman says no release of radioactive material (VIDEO) http://bit.ly/oglTIx #Fukushima
há 15 horas »
 ENENEWS Energy News
ABC’s Diane Sawyer: Virginia nuke plant has to “go to the back up to the back http://bit.ly/r8NeFI #Fukushima
há 16 horas »
 ENENEWS Energy News
Nuclear reactors at quake-hit Virginia nuke plant are “sitting on a fault line” http://bit.ly/ofeegG #Fukushima
há 20 horas »
 ENENEWS Energy News
Emergency diesel generator fails at Virginia nuke plant http://bit.ly/oY6a8t #Fukushima
há 21 horas »
 ENENEWS Energy News
Company admits Virginia nuke plant only designed to withstand a magnitude 5.9 – 6.1 earthquake — http://bit.ly/p6TgSL #Fukushima
há 22 horas » ENENEWS Energy News
Virginia nuke plant has lost offsite power, generators being used to cool reactors — “As far as w http://bit.ly/n9zu19 #Fukushima
há 23 horas


Reply 





 idiotbox says: 

			August 24, 2011 at 8:08 pm 
The New Madrid awakens ……enjoy the ride, it most likely be your last.
If you are near it, I suggest you move yesterday, although the rest of the US will fall in it’s path of devestation, the nuclear disaster that will follow along with the breaking of North America will leave a lasting (impression ( to say the least) don’t forget the establishment, is, and has been, aware of this and will allow the death of many, please, let us make shure that they are held responsible for their deception.


Reply 





 whatchagonnado? says: 

			August 24, 2011 at 11:15 pm 
Hello Idiotbox,
      I do live fairly close to the New Madrid (Nashville), and I am very concerned for my family that is there. Who do not believe there are earth changes occuring, no matter how much info I send them. I have read on some sites that FEMA has purchased body bags, blankets and rations to feed serveral million people in case of the New Madrid Fault “wakes up”. There is so much information it is difficult to distingish between “fact and fiction” at times. I defintely come to this site daily (several times) and get the latest updates. I have only been watching quakes closely since the Japan earthquake, and it continually amazes me that the media does not talk about all the 5.plus earthquakes that are occuring all over the world plus all the volcanos. You would think that they would show the preparations being made in case of a event, however they cover 2 days of the Virginia earthquake. With sunspots, volcano’s, and earthquakes you would think someone in the media would “wake up”.


Reply 





 J Guffey says: 

			August 25, 2011 at 1:00 am 
Whatchagonnado – you have come to the best sight I know of to get the most up-to-date information.
I too am concerned: for family, friends, and people I don’t even know. My dear Lord in Heaven has given me a burden for those that deny Him. Time as we know it is so short. Soon every knee will bow and every tongue confess, Jesus Christ is Lord, but for some it will be too late. May God help you reach your family and loved ones too. God bless.








 Irene Carmichael says: 

			August 25, 2011 at 7:25 am 
Hello whatchagonnado?. I understand what you are saying. I started watching storms many years ago. Then I started watching earthquakes when I discovered the USGS site at the beginning of this year, before New Zealand, and although I have always been fascinated with volcanoes, only recently have I been following them as closely as I do now.  I am also a student of Biblical eschatology. So, when I post something or try to warn someone of what is to come, I’m either ignored, argued with, or I just get that “deer in the headlights” look. And this is sometimes coming from close family. I have also read about the FEMA preparations and FEMA camps. 
Now when will the media wake up? They won’t. And the ones who want to are silenced. Why? I’m not sure. Probably something to do with powerful people controlling them. My opinion here. My belief is that this is all being orchestrated for the coming of the man of lawlessness, the one we call the AntiChrist. And he will come to power because the world will be in total chaos at that time. And, of course, that is all being orchestrated by an Almighty God for His perfect plan. 
So continue warning your family. You never know when at least one person will listen. With everything that is going on, people are noticing.
God bless and Maranatha.








 buttercup1976Rose says: 

			August 25, 2011 at 6:38 pm 
whatchagonnado? I will pray for your family.












 luisport says: 

			August 24, 2011 at 10:03 pm 
NASA / NOAA GOES-13 satellite image showing earth on August 24, 2011 at 11:45 UTC (7:45 a.m. EDT)
Hurricane Irene is visible over the Bahamas in this image. Irene is headed northwest at 12 mph towards the East Coast.
http://www.flickr.com/photos/gsfc/6076923014/in/photostream/


Reply 





 Eileen Eichler says: 

			August 25, 2011 at 9:59 am 
Hello folks,  I too find this an amazingly useful site. Thank you Alvin for your information and the understanding that it brings. I live just a few miles outside Christchurch, New Zealand and I can tell you from personal experience that the violence of the larger magnitude quakes is more than you can imagine from experiencing a mag. 5.  The first 7.1 woke me out of a sound sleep, the noise was huge and everything that could shake did shake.  The 6.3 was equally noisy and could be heard approaching, something like the sound of a freight train or a large truck. There was time to register the sound and then the quake hit the house like a fist, and once again, everything that could shake, did. We have had hundreds of moderate quakes since then, 5,s  4,s  and 3,s, and 2,s. There have been roughly 7000 quakes sinc the first, and it has been a very wearing time for all.  With a heavy snowfall just past, those in cracked and broken houses are having a difficult time of it. I have been very blessed as my home is still intact, although, I do have a grab bag of emergency clothes, medicines, etc. beside my bed, and an emergency stash out in the woodshed in case of need. The quakes have all been shallow, hence, noisy and rough, I will never feel the same again when I hear a low flying airplane, or a heavy truck, I will probably always jump now. The quakes are still occurring nearly a year on, over the past few days we have had a swarm of them. A 2, 3, and a 4, I suppose that they will eventually stop.


Reply 





 heather says: 

			August 25, 2011 at 5:27 pm 
Refering to the Virginia Quake, I thought that the aftershocks would br like 3.0 and smaller. The one today was 4.5. Could they be foreshocks instead? I can’t stress the need for God enough to my family. I tell them of the wonderful miracles in our church, like a woman had cancer and a week later after all the prayers it was gone. I told my mom this and she says “thats what I’m afraid of, mixed up test result”. I don’t know what to do except tell those who will listen and pray for those who don’t. Knock the dust from your shoes and go to the next who WILL hear.


Reply 





 The Extinction Protocol says: 

			August 25, 2011 at 6:23 pm 
“David Oppenheimer, a seismologist with the U.S. Geological Survey, said aftershocks should be expected for months. “You’ll feel magnitude 3 earthquakes over great distances … I would expect tens of magnitude 3s for earthquakes of this size,” Oppenheimer said from Menlo Park, California.” -Reuters, August 24, 2011
The geologist in the article didn’t mention any 4+ aftershocks….the reality is aftershocks can be equal or slightly less than the orignal and there’s no real way to guess which immediately after an earthquake.


Reply 






Leave a Reply Cancel reply



Enter your comment here...





Guest
Log In
Log In
Log In









Email (required) (Not published)



Name (required)



Website











Please log in to WordPress.com to post a comment to your blog.













 You are commenting using your Twitter account. (Log Out)












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. (Log Out)




Connecting to %s



 Notify me of follow-up comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.







 








Search for:



  Recent Posts 
Middle East powder keg: Senior Israeli General warns danger of regional war involving WMDs growing
6.6 magnitude earthquake strikes NW of Lake Toba super-volcano caldera
Somalia famine: UN warns of 750,000 deaths in coming months
European markets hammered as debt fears resurface in Eurozone
High winds and dry conditions sends Texas up in flames- 2 dead, 60 wildfires raging

Archives 
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010

Categories 
11:11 signature encoded

2012

Acquatic Ecosystem crash

Catastrophic Insurance losses mount

Celebrities and the Apocalypse

Civilizations unraveling

Climate unraveling

Cloudburst storms with flashflooding

Comets

Commentary

Dark Ages

Disappearing Lakes

Dust Storm

Earth Changes

Earth Watch

Earthquake Omens?

Economic upheaval, social unrest, terrorism

Environmental Threat

Extinction Protocol Exclusive Editorial

Extreme Weather Event

Famine Threat

Fireballs, Meteor or Asteroid

Food chain unraveling

Forecast book quotation

Future coding

High-risk potential hazard zone

Land fissures, cracks, sinkholes

Landslide & geological deformation

Lithosphere collapse & fisssure

Mass animal deaths

Monthly lead post

New World Order -Dystopia- War

Pack Animal Aggression

Pest Explosions

Pestilence Watch

Planetary Tremor Event

Potential Earthchange hotspot

Prophecies referenced

Seismic tremors

Signs of Magnetic Field weakening

Solar Event

Space Watch

Strange high tides & freak waves

Unprecedented Flooding

Unsolved Mystery

Ususual animal behavior for disaster

Volcanic Eruption

Volcano Watch

Wildfires


Email Subscription

Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 1,315 other followers









EP: Live Twitter Feed
Israeli General warns danger of regional war with WMDs growing: http://t.co/4YIrf15 -The Extinction Protocol...4 hours ago
6.6 magnitude earthquake strikes just NW of Lake Toba super-volcano caldera: http://t.co/NA1NKCZ -The Extinction Protocol...5 hours ago
UN warns famine could kill 750,000 in coming months in Somalia: http://t.co/02T0qRV -The Extinction Protocol...8 hours ago

 



The Extinction Protocol: 2012 and beyondThe world will change. Will you be ready?

 






					The Extinction Protocol: 2012 and beyond				


				Theme: Twenty Ten Blog at WordPress.com. 
			
















































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			






