How Virginia's Nuclear Reactors Endured the Quake - National - The Atlantic Wire
























Technology




Electric Motor in a Single Molecule



Global




Famine Is Spreading in Somalia, UN Warns



Politics




Obama Hinting at Stimulus Before Jobs Address



Business




European Markets Tanking as Eurozone Anxiety Continues



Global




Typhoon Kills At Least 29 in Japan



National




Budget Crunch Threatens U.S. Postal Service





















Latest Stories

















Presented By


















Politics


Business


Entertainment


Technology


National


Global




Open Wire


All topics







Search














Tweet









Share



Print article



Email article



Have a hot tip? A story we missed?Tell us on theOpen Wire 








AP
How Virginia's Nuclear Reactors Endured the Quake



John Hudson 
Aug 23, 2011
2,186 Views
Comments




	Following the 5.9 magnitude earthquake in Virginia this afternoon, two nuclear reactors were automatically taken offline, while twelve additional plants declared an "unusual event" according to officials from the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) Tuesday. The plant that houses the two nuclear reactors, the North Anna Power Station in Virginia,  lost offsite power, which triggered four diesel generators to maintain its cooling operations. Adding to difficulties, one of the four diesel generators failed, NRC public affairs officer Joey Ledford tells The Atlantic Wire. So how are these plants designed to overcome an earthquake and what's the status of each one? Here's the latest on how the quake affected the country's nuclear power plants

Is everything okay? "As far as we know, everything is safe," said Nuclear Regulatory Commission spokesman David McIntyre. Ledford said teams are on site to assess any potential damage and will report back. He said one of the diesel generators had failed because of a coolant leak but that the other three generators could keep the reactor cool indefinitely and there was no major emergency. Besides the failed diesel engine, Ledford said "everything is operating as you would expect after an earthquake of this magnitude. There are no problems with the plant's major safety systems." 

Was Virginia prepared for this type of quake? According to local news station WDBJ7, the 5.9 magnitude quake was the largest quake to hit the state since 1897. The last recorded quake in the area was in July of last year in Gaithersburg Maryland registering at a 3.6 magnitude. Despite this quake being significantly larger, Ledford says the plants were prepared. "There's a history of seismic activity in the area and everything is operating as you would expect." In a sign that the state could be more prepare, ABC News notes that "Seismographs had been installed around the North Anna Power Station to detect earthquakes, but those were taken offline in the 1990s due to budget cuts, according to the state of Virginia website."

What's up with the twelve "unusual events"? The quake was felt from New York City to Detroit, which caused 12 plants in Virginia, Maryland, Pennsylvania and New Jersey to report unusual events. Ledford explained the alert system. "An unusual event is the lowest of the four classifications," he said. "The plants basically have to report an unusual event if they record any seismic activity. There's no indication of damage at any other plants." On the sliding scale of notifications, there are unusual events, alerts, area site emergencies and general emergencies. North Ann Power Station is currently the only plant under "alert" mode.

How controversial is nuclear power in Virginia? When the devastating earthquake in Japan triggered discussions in the U.S. about the saftey of nuclear power, Virginia Business reported that the issue remained bulletproof in the state. "There are plenty of lessons to be learned from the near meltdown of Japan’s tsunami-wrecked nuclear power plant, but abandoning nuclear power should not be one of them...that has been the reaction in Virginia from the halls of Congress, the Virginia governor’s office, the state’s largest utility and academia."


	Want to add to this story? Let us know in comments
		or send an email to the author at 
		jhudson at theatlantic dot com.
	
	You can share ideas for stories on the Open Wire.

	
		
		

John Hudson





Topics: 
Earthquake, 
			
			Nuclear Regulatory Commission, 
			
			Virginia



Tweet









				Related Articles
			
 

				More by John Hudson








East Coasters Never Learned the 'Stay Covered' Earthquake Rule







Nazis Made Allen Sorry for 'Macaca'







Earthquakes, NPR and Whisks


 





The Extent of Obama's Solyndra Problem







Obama's Smog Standard Capitulation Enrages Environmentalists






















User Comments
Please type your comment and click Post. If you’re not already logged in you will be prompted to log in or register



View the discussion thread.



Atlantic

A Cynically Funny Look at Employment in 'El Empleo'
Oh, My People...
Profiles of the Jobless: The 'Mad As Hell' Millennial Generation
Labor Day Good News?

More from the Atlantic


BuzzFeed






More from Buzzfeed



AdWeek

Inside Chipotle and Willie Nelson's Sustainable Farming Ad
Trending Topics 9 6 11
See HBO's 'Boardwalk Empire' Vintage Subway Train in Action
Google Chairman Weighs In on Apple vs. Microsoft

More from the AdWeek















The Wire to Go
















Five Best Columns


David Brooks on American decline, Russell Razzaque on religion as a safety measure, Shashank Joshi on the end of intervention, and more 

Get Five Best Columns in your inbox each morning:
	Subscribe to our email newsletter (preview)




I want to receive updates from partners and sponsors.



Email Address









































Have a story we missed? A link we have to click?  A sharp opinion about the news?  Instead of waiting for us to post it, tell us on the Open Wire.
Submit your news and ideas | See all reader posts


Most Clicked

Budget Crunch Threatens U.S. Postal Service
Obama Hinting at Stimulus Before Jobs Address
Electric Motor in a Single Molecule
Jon Stewart Has Had It with How Fox Talks About Class Warfare
Anniversary Approaching, New Views of 9/11
European Markets Tanking as Eurozone Anxiety Continues
Gawker: Bill O'Reilly Had His Wife's Cop Boyfriend Investigated by Cops
Beyonce's Baby Is Bad News for Clint Eastwood
Jon Stewart: Why is Everyone Still Ignoring Ron Paul?
Typhoon Kills At Least 29 in Japan



A Year Ago on the Wire
Why Craigslist Is Censoring 'Adult Services'




Facebook









Reddit













About the Wire
The Atlantic Wire is your authoritative guide to the news and ideas that matter most right now. Our team tracks newsmakers and opinions across the entire media spectrum: newspapers, web sites, television, radio and magazines.
But we do more than just collect information. By synthesizing, analyzing and summarizing what’s out there, and adding new information when we can, we are a news engine that gives you a quick and valuable account of the issues of the day.


The Wire to Go

iPhone app
RSS
Facebook
Twitter



Subscribe to our Newsletter
Get Five Best Columns in your inbox each morning (preview)




I want to receive updates from partners and sponsors.



Email Address









































Open Wire
Have a hot tip? A story we missed? Tell us on the Open Wire
Contact Us
How to send us editorial or technical feedback


The Atlantic

FAQ
Subscribe
Merchandise
Jobs
Privacy
Terms and Conditions
Advertise with The Atlantic
Follow The Atlantic

The Atlantic Media Company

The Atlantic
National Journal
Government Executive



Copyright © 2011 by The Atlantic Monthly Group. All rights reserved.
















