Briefing: The Virginia earthquake and unexpected quakes - environment - 24 August 2011 - New Scientist







SECURE BEST OFFER





US$99.00 - One Year via Credit Card

















Environment



    










Log in




Email

Password

 Remember me

Your login is case sensitive
I have forgotten my password







Register now
Activate my subscription
Institutional login
Athens login


close




My New Scientist







Home
News
In-Depth Articles
Blogs
Opinion
TV
Galleries
Topic Guides
Last Word
Subscribe
Datingnew




Look for Science Jobs






SPACE
TECH
ENVIRONMENT
HEALTH
LIFE
PHYSICS&MATH
SCIENCE IN SOCIETY










Home
|Environment
|

		News
		



		
		
			Briefing: The Virginia earthquake and unexpected quakes
		
		


		
		
			
				20:26 24 August 2011
			
			
		

		 by
			
				
					Ferris Jabr







On Tuesday afternoon a magnitude 5.8 earthquake struck Mineral, Virginia, northwest of Richmond. People felt shaking as far north as Montreal, Canada and as far south as Hampstead, North Carolina. Although the East Coast of the US is not as geologically active as the West Coast, there are a few regions in the East vulnerable to surprisingly large earthquakes.
What do geologists know so far about yesterday's earthquake in Virginia?
It is the largest to strike Virginia since a magnitude 5.8 or 5.9 quake shook Giles County – west of yesterday's quake – on 31 May 1897. The 1897 event was the largest quake in Virginia's history.
The areas where the quake occurred, the Central Virginia Seismic Zone, lies far from active plate boundaries, making earthquakes in the area a relatively rare occurrence. Several different faults run through the area, however, mostly parallel to the Appalachian mountains in a Northeast-Southwest direction, says Christopher Bailey of William and Mary College in Williamsburg, Virginia. The faults first formed during the Paleozoic era, between 300 and 400 million years ago and most crust in the area is old, metamorphic rock.
The Spotsylvania Fault and Lakeside Fault are the two leading candidates for the culprit behind yesterday's quake, says Bailey. Neither are faults that geologists would pinpoint as high-risk, although a magnitude 4.5 quake in 2003 involved both faults, which run parallel to one another.
The United States Geological Survey says that yesterday's quake was a reverse faulting episode along a northeast-southwest trending plane. In a reverse fault, two slabs of rock squish together until the strain is so great that they slip: the higher slab slides up past the lower at a steep angle.
The most recent estimate for the depth of the earthquake's epicenter is 6 kilometres, although geologists are still refining this point. 6 kilometers is relatively shallow for an earthquake. The shallower a quake, the more shaking at the surface and the greater the chances that the quake will rupture the surface of the Earth.
Why are there fewer moderate to large earthquakes on the East Coast than on the West Coast of the US?
In the West, the Pacific Plate and North American Plate grind along each other in opposing directions, putting a lot of stress on the faults in that region. The Eastern US is not as geologically active and the faults are not under as much stress. "The thinking is that most faults in eastern North America wouldn't generate something bigger than a magnitude 7," says Bailey. Many eastern tremors are earthquakes that happen within a tectonic plate, rather than at the boundary of two tectonic plates. Such quakes are rarer and less well understood, which makes them more surprising when they do occur.
Which regions of the East Coast are most vulnerable to unexpectedly big earthquakes?
There are at least three areas in the eastern US where big earthquakes have struck in the past and will likely strike in the future. In 1886, an approximately magnitude 7 earthquake leveled Charlestown, South Carolina. The Charlestown Seismic Zone remains at risk for big earthquakes.
The Western Quebec Seismic Zone extends over the northern border of New York State. In 1944, a magnitude 5.6 earthquake shook an area between Cornwall, Ontario and Massena, New York, causing $2 million in damages at the time.
The Eastern Tennessee Seismic Zone, stretching from northeast Alabama to southwest Virginia, is highly active, although most quakes in the region are small. But two 4.6 magnitude earthquakes have occurred there: one near Knoxville, Tennessee in 1973 and another near Fort Payne, Alabama in 2003.
In a 2008 study, Lynn Sykes of Columbia University in New York City compiled a catalog of all 383 known earthquakes from 1677 to 2007 in a 39,000 square kilometre area around New York City and estimated the risk of future quakes in the greater New York area. They concluded that on average New York can expect a magnitude 5 quake once every century, a magnitude 6 quake every 670 years and magnitude 7 quake every 3400 years.
Further west and south, four monster earthquakes – each estimated between magnitude 7 and 8 – struck Louisiana, Missouri and Tennessee in 1811 and 1812 in the region known as the New Madrid Seismic Zone. The biggest quake in the area since then was a magnitude 6.6 quake in 1895 in Charleston, Missouri.
How was a magnitude 5.8 quake felt by so many people over such a broad area?
The Earth's crust in the eastern US is older than crust in the West, and less geologically active. Older rock is cold, hard, and dense and transmits seismic waves over greater distances than rock in the West. This also explains why buildings can be damaged far from the epicenter of an East Coast earthquake, but it does not mean East Coast quakes are more damaging than West Coast quakes.
Will the Virginia earthquake have aftershocks or trigger other quakes?
Four aftershocks of magnitudes 2.8, 2.2, 4.2 and 3.4 followed the main earthquake within 12 hours. Bailey says these aftershocks should drop in magnitude and frequency and that it is unlikely that yesterday's is the forerunner of a bigger earthquake. Although earthquakes can trigger one another, Bailey does not think a 5.8 magnitude earthquake is strong enough to trigger a cascade of dangerous seismic activity on the East Coast.























If you would like to reuse any content from New Scientist, either in print or online, please contact the syndication department first for permission. New Scientist does not own rights to photos, but there are a variety of licensing options available for use of articles and graphics we own the copyright to.




Have your say
Only subscribers may leave comments on this article. Please log in.





email:



password:



Remember me  











Only personal subscribers may leave comments on this article
Subscribe now to comment.




All comments should respect the New Scientist House Rules. If you think a particular comment breaks these rules then please use the "Report" link in that comment to report it to us.
If you are having a technical problem posting a comment, please contact technical support.
















A surprise shakeup in Virginia (Image: Steve Helber/AP)



ADVERTISEMENT











More
Latest news


Giant Mars crater hints at steamy past


15:35 02 September 2011
The first rock from the Endeavour crater is rich in zinc, pointing to a hot, watery history



Grey wolf hunt gets legal backing, again


13:52 01 September 2011
After years of bans and appeals, two US states have reopened their wolf hunting season, sparking debates over the hunts' sustainability



Portable ammonia factories could fuel clean cars


13:00 01 September 2011
If we can make ammonia on the spot at filling stations, cars will be able to run on green fuel



Bird flu flies back into the news


08:00 31 August 2011
A strain of H5N1 virus circulating for several years is now dominant in Asian birds. Well adapted to migratory species, it could now spread widely



see all related stories




More
Latest news


DNA super-network increases risk of mix-ups

18:20 05 September 2011
Opening up forensic databases across Europe will make it easier for countries to share data, but it may also lead to miscarriages of justice



Vertical rocket destroyed mid-flight in failed test

18:05 05 September 2011
The rocket is made by Blue Origin, one of the contenders in the race to launch a commercial space-flight industry



Today on New Scientist: 5 November 2011

18:00 05 September 2011
All today's stories on newscientist.com, including: the psychology of lone wolves, the man rewriting human evolution, quantum minds, and more



One-Minute Physics: How do we know our world is 3D?

17:32 05 September 2011
Watch an animation that shows how to test that we live in three dimensions



see all latest news



 





Most read
Most commented



Natural-born painkiller found in human saliva 
Beware the lone wolf radicals
Giant Mars crater hints at steamy past
Scaremongering about Fukushima radiation is damaging
Test shows most efficient way to board a plane




Most read
Most commented



Don't panic about the missing Higgs – for now
Credible or inedible?
Astrophile: The impossibly modern star
Alternative medicine investigator: Placebos and platitudes
Heal thyself: Meditate



 




TWITTER

New Scientist is on Twitter




Get the latest from New Scientist: sign up to our Twitter feed







LATEST JOBS

Lead Market Development Manager
Sr. Staff Engineer Software
Technical Project Manager
Sr. Program Manager
Staff Scientist Chemistry
Sr. Manager Business Development Synthetic Biology
Process Science Fellow









This week's issue
Subscribe



For exclusive news and expert analysis, subscribe to New Scientist.

Gain full online access
Current issue content
Content of past issues



03 September 2011





For exclusive news and expert analysis, subscribe to New Scientist.

Gain full online access
Current issue content
Content of past issues






ADVERTISEMENT




















Back to top




















Login




Email

Password

 Remember me

Your login is case sensitive
I have forgotten my password







Register now
Activate my subscription
Institutional login
Athens login


close










About us

New Scientist

Syndication

Recruitment Advertising

Staff at New Scientist

Advertise

RBI Jobs




User Help
Contact Us
FAQ / Help
Disclaimer
Ts & Cs
Cookies
Privacy Policy




Subscriptions
Subscribe
Renew
Gift subscription

My account


Back issues
Customer Service




Links
Site Map
Browse all articles
Magazine archive
NewScientistJobs
The LastWord
RSS Feeds

Online Store
Android App
Mobile site home




Science Jobs
Biology Jobs
Chemistry Jobs
Clinical Jobs
Sales Jobs
Earth & Environment Jobs
Engineering Jobs
Maths & IT Jobs
Graduate Jobs




© Copyright Reed Business Information Ltd.

















