Historic Episcopal Cathedral Faces Uninsured Earthquake Damage
 | God Discussion



September 5, 2011


Log In
RSS
Twitter
YouTube
God Discussion on Blog Talk Radio
 

God DiscussionThe Place for Seekers Who Don't Go to Church | news, opinions & reviewsHome
News

Third Party Feeds
Press Releases


Understanding Faith

Christianity
Mysticism and Indigenous, Ethnic Religious Customs
Judaism
New Age and Spirituality
Cults and Extremism, Toxic Religion
TBA


Freethought

Atheism, Agnosticism, Non-Theism
Humanism and Psychology
Theistic Freethought: New Thought, Deism, Universalism
The Bible Slam

Book 01 – Genesis
Book 02 – Exodus
Book 03 – Leviticus
Book 04 – Numbers
Book 05 – Deuteronomy




Perspectives and Symbolism

Interesting Stuff

Articles From Around the Web




Culture Wars

Church and State
Education
Extremism
LGBT
Women's Issues


Books and Entertainment

Reviews
Books, eBooks and Movies (with Amazon ratings)
Merchandise and Gifts
Stories and Poems


About

About This Site
Policies and Disclaimers


Contact
Contributors

Section Editors
Bloggers


Submissions

Articles and Opinion Submissions

How To Submit, Add YouTube Videos, and more tips


Press Releases


The God Discussion Show
Polls
Forum
End Times Clocks
 

You are here: Home / Interesting Stuff / Articles From Around the Web / Historic Episcopal Cathedral Faces Uninsured Earthquake Damage 
Historic Episcopal Cathedral Faces Uninsured Earthquake Damage
August 24, 2011  By Mriana Leave a Comment  



The Washington Cathedral, an Episcopal Church, built in 1912, is the second largest cathedral in the United States and sixth largest in the world.  It received severe damage from the 5.9 earthquake that hit August 23, 2011.  Three after shocks of 2.5 followed the quake.  However, these damages are not covered by insurance and many east coast churches finding their insurance will not cover the damages.
[Episcopal News Service] East Coast Episcopal churches great and small spent Aug. 24 assessing damage caused by the magnitude 5.8 earthquake that struck the day before outside of Richmond, Virginia, and finding that their insurance may not cover needed repairs.
Pictures of the damage are on the Cathedral website.  This is the same cathedral which Presiding Bishop Catherine Schori's formal seating service as the first female presiding bishop took place.  Many presidents attended this church at one time also.  Late President Gerald Ford and Ronald Reagan's funerals took place here, as well as other presidents.  Thus this church as a vast history with the United States before it sustained substantial damage from the quake.

The historic Washington National Cathedral sustained substantial damage in this quake. Experts are tirelessly working to assess the building damage—both structurally and aesthetically.
Since 1912, the Cathedral has been a national place of worship as well as host to state funerals, presidential memorial services, and served as a spiritual home for our country in times of crisis.
The Dean of the National Cathedral twittered:
"This cathedral was built by Americans all over the nation and its restoration will require the full support of the country," the Very Rev. Samuel T. Lloyd III, cathedral dean, said via Twitter.
None of the costs associated with the anticipated repairs will be covered by the cathedral's insurance, according to a tweet on the cathedral's Twitter page.
The Cathedral is closed until August 27, but plans for Sunday worship service will be announced August 28, once they are finalized.  The service for the 9/11 commemoration, called "A Call to Compassion," will resume as planned, an announcement stated.  However, many other churches in the area are finding the same insurance issues.
"Regrettably, several churches that have sustained damage have learned that their insurance does not cover earthquake damage — and this includes churches covered by the Church Insurance Company," Johnston said in his letter. "Earthquake insurance is an additional insurance one must purchase and, given the fact that earthquakes have been such a rarity in Virginia, many churches may not have such insurance."
The diocese staff is exploring other possible resources for repairs since they did not purchase earthquake insurance.  The video below discusses and shows the damage done to the cathedral by the quake.

Joe Alonso, head stonemason at the National Cathedral, said in a video released late Aug. 23 that it was fortunate that most of the debris that fell off the building fell onto its roofs rather than onto surrounding sidewalks and roads.
He noted that the western pinnacle of the south transept "rotated counterclockwise several inches" during the quake and said he observed evidence of similar rotation on some of the cathedral's many other pinnacles. The central tower sustained most of the damage, he said.
"It's mind-boggling what occurred up there," he said in the video.
One pinnacle rotated and fell onto the steps of the cathedral.  These pinnacles weigh about 3000 pounds, most of which fell onto the roof.
"One good thing about the roof of the central tower is that it is a massive poured-concrete roof with massive poured-concrete beams, so structurally it was able to take that hit of that massive masonry, of that 3,000-pound chunk of pinnacle striking it," he said in the video.
Supposedly the repairs will cost millions of dollars and the cathedral expects support from the country.  It was built by the nation, so they expect the nation to help repair the damages.  Interesting concept, but it seems like the Episcopal Church would start encroaching on the First Amendment, with that one, but then again, the Anglican Church's history involves being a Church State, of which this cathedral is mixed with U.S. presidential history, as well as a historical symbol.
A press conference (on site 22 minute video), given on the August 24, gave more details of the damages.  The website of the National Cathedral had this to say concerning the damages:
“We at the National Cathedral are deeply grateful for the expressions of support that have poured in from across the country via phone calls, emails, and other media,” said Cathedral Dean Samuel T. Lloyd III. “We are extraordinarily fortunate to have so many devoted friends and supporters, and will surely be turning to them for assistance in the work of repairing the damages sustained today. We give thanks to God that no one was injured and that preliminary reports indicate that despite the damage, the building will soon be accessible.”
Below is a view of Reagan's funeral at the cathedral:

 


Auto-Generated Related Posts (Use the Search for Better Results)September 4, 2011 -- In the Wake of Irene, Episcopal Relief and Development Helping Its OwnSeptember 2, 2011 -- Faith Communities Give Support to Earthquake Damaged CathedralAugust 24, 2011 -- The Irony of the Virginia EarthquakeAugust 9, 2011 -- Greed in the Boardroom, Now Greed on the StreetsJune 26, 2011 -- Pope Speaks Out Against IndividualismJune 23, 2011 -- Sick Russians prefer Crystal Ball gazers and Magic Spell workers to Medical Doctors says Government StatisticsApril 29, 2011 -- Christians Should Not Vote for Ron Paul, According to Religious RightApril 13, 2011 -- Sacred Prostitution in Ancient and Biblical History:  The Homosexual or Pederastic Sodomite as Consecrated to Deity (Part 2)April 13, 2011 -- Sacred Prostitution in Ancient and Biblical History: Male and Female Prostitutes in Temple Service (Part 1)

Filed Under: Articles From Around the Web, Bloggers and Columnists, Mriana Brinson Tagged With: Cathedral, damage, episcopal news service, Insurance, president gerald ford, service, state funerals, washington national cathedral 





Speak Your Mind Cancel reply

Name *
Email *
Website








CAPTCHA Code
 *
  




If you're commenting for the very first time, you comment is held in moderation.  After the first approval, your comments appear immediately, so long as they comply with our terms.

IMPORTANT NOTE: If you have a lengthy comment, copy it before entering the CAPTCHA code and hitting reply.  Some people say that their comments disappear if they enter the wrong captcha code and have to go back.  

Since this is a do follow blog, USE A NAME, NOT KEYWORDS (i.e., call yourself Kevin instead of "Buy carports here.")  Comments are monitored and will be deleted without review if posted using a key phrase instead of a name.  By submitting a comment here you grant this site a perpetual license to reproduce your words and name/web site in attribution.  We reserve the right to delete your comment pursuant to the site's terms, conditions and policies. 

GOD DISCUSSION RESERVES THE RIGHT TO DELETE OR EDIT COMMENTS FOR ANY REASON, WITHOUT NOTICE, including without limitation grammar errors, "trolling" and spamming. 




 Have trouble reading your computer screen?  Click the icons above to increase or decrease font size.  We have removed our audio feed due to the amount of time it took to load, and apologize for any inconvenience.  





 













Administrative Announcements and Open Polls
 This week's poll:  Should presidential candidates be asked about their faith?
The God Discussion Show Schedule




 Recently posted …

Arizona GOP Auctioned Gun Similar to the One Used to Shoot Giffords
In 11,000 word response, Vatican claims that it did not hinder Ireland's sexual abuse investigations
This week's poll:  Should presidential candidates be asked about their faith?
Rick Perry campaign receives boost in financial contributions
70-year-old church secretary sentenced for embezzling $1.5 million from Baptist church
North and South Korean Buddhist Monks Unite to Celebrate Ancient Engraving
Jackson County Christians recite the Lord's Prayer before high school football game
Are We Living in The Matrix?  Simulated Reality and Multiverse Theory  (Part 2)
Nigerian "megapastors" fly the world in private jets while 60% of their flock live below the WHO poverty line





 





Get Our Content by Email
Subscribe to God Discussion










Popular This Week
Don't ask, don't tell extends to questioning Republican candidates' faiths; Bill Keller experiences conservative media backlash over religion questions posed to Republican candidates
Herman Cain desperate for political come-back, plays the pro-Israel card
Russell Saunders and other atheists call for an atheist presidential nominee to right unbalanced political representation in America
Scientologists' angry response to New Yorker article–it's all out war now
Russian authorities continue harassment of Jehovah's Witnesses
Conservative readers take New York Times to task over "bias against religion"
Michele Bachmann claims to be Jewish in the style of Christian Zionism
Justin Bieber gives thanks to Christ for VMA win
Pastor Wants a Christian National Registry of Atheists




Tag Cloud
amendment
Atheist
Atheists
author
Bible
Body
book
Catholic
CHAPTER
Child
Christianity
church
death
edition
Faith
God
Heart
History
home
information
Islam
Law
life
Love
message
Muslim
News
person
Prayer
President
Press
Religion
school
series
Sex
site
spiritual
Stars
State
story
Text
time
Truth
Woman
Work





Comments
admin on Arizona GOP Auctioned Gun Similar to the One Used to Shoot Giffordsadmin on Jackson County Christians recite the Lord's Prayer before high school football gameMriana on Jackson County Christians recite the Lord's Prayer before high school football gameAlex on North and South Korean Buddhist Monks Unite to Celebrate Ancient Engravingadmin on UFO sightings on the rise: UFO in China holds up flights for more than half an houradmin on Leo Behe, son of Micheal BeheMriana on Changing SocietyKyouri on Herman Cain desperate for political come-back, plays the pro-Israel card
Social Networking





Main Feed | Comments Feed













 



Fair Use and Decayed Links
FAIR USE NOTICE. This site might contain some copyrighted material, the use of which has not always been specifically authorized by the copyright owner. We make such material available in an effort to advance awareness and understanding of issues relating to religion, church and state, politics and spirituality. We believe this constitutes a 'fair use' of any such copyrighted material as provided for in section 107 of the US Copyright Law. In accordance with Title 17 U.S.C. Section 107, the material on this site is distributed without profit to those who have expressed a prior interest in receiving the included information for research and educational purposes. For more information please visit: http://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/17/107.shtml (new window). If you wish to use copyrighted material from this site for purposes of your own that go beyond 'fair use', you must obtain permission directly from the copyright owner.
LINK DECAY.  Not all the sites linked to use permanent URLs. If the archives take you to a dead link, you can search the link's site for the article that had been published.  It is possible that the web page was removed; however, the publication might have a print copy available.  Additionally, some news videos that the site provides through subscription or YouTube may have decayed or were removed by their owner.




Latest Seekers
Feedjit Live Blog Stats




Listen to the Show Archives

 Listen to internet radio with God Discussion on Blog Talk Radio


Archives

September 2011 (45)
August 2011 (283)
July 2011 (254)
June 2011 (220)
May 2011 (273)
April 2011 (346)
March 2011 (314)
February 2011 (238)
January 2011 (237)
December 2010 (325)
November 2010 (288)
October 2010 (304)
September 2010 (266)
August 2010 (178)
July 2010 (315)
June 2010 (394)
May 2010 (375)
April 2010 (325)
March 2010 (380)
February 2010 (347)
January 2010 (344)
December 2009 (357)
November 2009 (342)
October 2009 (365)
September 2009 (327)
August 2009 (350)
July 2009 (346)
June 2009 (299)
May 2009 (305)
April 2009 (268)
March 2009 (246)
February 2009 (112)





Top of PageCopyright © 2011 · News Theme on Genesis Framework · WordPress · Log in














Copy / Paste
Site Search
Wikipedia
Google
Facts
Amazon
eBay
Outlook
Gmail
Y! Mail
Twitter

Search & Share



Web Toolbar by Wibiya





