Asheville-Mountain Area Red Cross: Earthquake Replay





















































































































































Wednesday, August 24, 2011





Earthquake Replay





The 5.8 magnitude Virginia quake definitely was a shock in more ways  than one.  Earthquakes are rather unheard of out east, due to the lack  of an active tectonic plate  boundary.  That doesn't mean they don't happen, and the East coast was  caught by surprise for a relatively mild quake compared to the West. The reactions varied from real shock to 'laughter' shock). 
 How did this happen? Here's how:
   





Posted by
WNC Red Cross


at
1:03 PM
































0
comments:
        








Post a Comment



















Newer Post


Older Post

Home




Subscribe to:
Post Comments (Atom)









What would you like to see featured on this blog?













Search This Blog


Loading...













Blogroll










Blog Asheville




LAAFF 2011: knife juggler in stilettos


1 day ago












Cross Blog: Award-winning Red Cross news and views from Oregon and beyond




Friday Final Cut


3 days ago












Asheville Travel Blog




You Can't Help But LAAFF


4 days ago












Ashvegas




Ollabelle


4 days ago












blog.redcross.org/




Worldwide Wednesday Wrap-Up


5 days ago












Greater Chicago Red Cross Blog




A New Generation of Philanthropists


2 weeks ago












Asheville North Carolina




Park Ridge Weekly Events


3 weeks ago












Asheville's Hot!




Cucina 24, Restaurant with the Classic Italian Tastes


1 year ago












WNC Citizens Blog




Honeybee in a Squash Blossom


1 year ago












Mountain Xpress Blogs | mountainx.com























Links


Red Cross WNC
Give Blood!
Take A Class!
Volunteer!












Blog Archive





September (5)
      

August (15)
      

July (13)
      

June (12)
      

May (15)
      

April (17)
      

March (18)
      

February (8)
      














Popular Posts









MST3K + Red Cross = Yes, please
Hurricanes, fires, earthquakes... It can get pretty heavy around here. So to let you know we're not all doom and gloom, we present this MST3...










Maybe We Should Start Including LightSabers in Our First Aid Kits...







Weekly Worldwide Wrap-Up!
       Welcome   to the Weekly Worldwide Wrap-Up, in which we consolidate the   international Red Cross and Red Crescent news into one list ...










O say, can you see... Our soldiers coming home?
As the Sun Country Airlines private charter aircraft came rolling off the taxiway at Asheville Regional Airport headed straight toward a gro...










Eat Dust, Give Blood: NASCAR Driver Shows Support for Red Cross
This weekend Vancouver, Washington NASCAR driver Greg Biffle  will not only be telling people to "eat dust" but to also "give blood."  He'll...










Red Cross Responds to Local Disasters, While Several Volunteers Are Still On Assignment in the East Coast
The East Coast is still reeling from the effects of Hurricane Irene, which is likely to rank among the 10 costliest catastrophes in U.S.  hi...










Be Red Cross Ready for: ZOMBIE APOCALYPSE!!!!
Public, we're worried about you. Apparently, you are  inordinately worried about a Zombie Apocalypse . Well, we're not here to judge. We're ...










Red Cross of WNC Responding to Storm Damage in Eastern North Carolina
The American Red Cross in Western North Carolina has begun deploying staff, volunteers and resources to the eastern part of the state in the...





Hurricane Irene: Update #1
Click here to view a chart detailing A Guide to Our Basic Services in an event such as a hurricane . 
 
 Irene, the first hurricane of 2011,...










CPR Saturday is March 12! Get trained for FREE!
Your chance to learn free lifesaving skills has arrived! So what if we're putting a couple of superheroes out of work.  Registration begins ...





























































Awesome Inc. template. Powered by Blogger.
































