Global News-n-Views: Virginia Earthquake a Sign of the End Times? Public Looks to Pat Robertson



























































Global News-n-Views



Today's News, Tomorrow's Views - We bring you the best in Global News and Views.




















Global News n Views


HOME
MARITAS TRAVEL
FEED AN ORPHAN TODAY
GOD HAS A PLAN FOR YOU
BORN AGAIN


















































































Friday, August 26, 2011





Virginia Earthquake a Sign of the End Times? Public Looks to Pat Robertson








By Nicola Menzie / Christian Post Contributor

Is it a coincidence that an earthquake that struck Virginia and rattled dozens of other states occurred amid Pat Robertson's "Sign of the Times" special on the "700 Club?"

"Are we in the last days?" Robertson asked during Wednesday morning's live online streaming of the "700 Club" as he continued his teaching on the "Sign of the Times."

"The earth moved," Robertson said ominously, describing the earthquake that struck Virginia Tuesday, "and then it moved all over this part of the country."

As a magnitude 5.8 earthquake struck Virginia around 1:51 p.m. on Tuesday, many folks wondered about its unusual strength. Aftershocks were felt all along the East Coast, West Coast, in some southern states, and even in Canada.

Don Blakeman, a geophysicist with the National Earthquake Information Center (NEIC), told The Christian Post Wednesday that although Virginia has a fair number of earthquakes like most other states, the temblor's strength was unusual.

"Virginia has a fair number of quakes ... but they are typically small. [Virginia] does have a number of them every year, but it is pretty unusual to have one of this size," Blakeman said.

The NEIC geophysicist added, "We should expect some aftershocks, because when you have a good size quake like this then it’s pretty typical to have some aftershocks. It's possible to have some fairly large ones, but most of them will be [in the 3.0 range]."

Earthquake activity was one of the signs of the end, Robertson said, referring to other occurrences such as food shortages and conflicts between nations, which Christians believe will precede Christ's return.

Robertson explained in Wednesday's program, which focused on natural disasters, that earthquakes are one of the "birth pangs" Jesus Christ refers to in Matthew 24 after his disciples ask about the signs preceding his second coming.

The televangelist, who started his series on signs of the end times on Monday, was not alone in looking to the fulfillment of biblical prophecies amid the quake.

Twitter users took to their accounts yesterday, wondering if the CBN televangelist would speak out on the earthquake.

"Earthquake in DC? Stand by for a Biblical explanation from Pat Robertson," tweeted Armistead Maupin (@ArmisteadMaupin).

Erin Fleming (@ERINonyourRADIO) tweeted, "A hurricane headed for the US, an earthquake this morning in D.C. and rioting in parts of the states as well. Back to you Pat Robertson."

Some Twitter users were skeptical, scoffing at the possibility of God revealing any kind of prophetic word to Robertson.

A handful of comments appeared to make reference to Robertson's controversial remarks during the 2010 earthquake that struck the Caribbean nation of Haiti.

Robertson said, just one day after the rattler devastated the small island, that its people were possibly cursed for allegedly making a deal with the devil during the 1791 slave rebellion against the French.

User warrenstjohn (@warrenstjohn) tweeted, "Eagerly awaiting Pat Robertson's pronouncements on who did what to deserve an earthquake."

Patti (@Floridaline) wrote, "Yippee!!! Tomorrow, Gods Meteorologist, Pat Robertson, will tell us why there was an earthquake near DC!!"

Despite the anticipation, Robertson made it clear Wednesday that he had not received any prophetic word from God regarding the earthquake.

"I can't claim any kind of particular revelation," Robertson said in response to a viewer's question about upcoming natural disasters.

Some viewers of the "700 Club's" "Sign of the Times" program were also skeptical that Tuesday's earthquake was any kind of sign from God about the end of the world.

"We've always had natural disasters, many far worse than the Great Virginia Quake of 2011. So why are the events more of a sign than the events of the past," a viewer watching the live program asked in an accompanying chat room.

Other viewers asked Robertson to comment on the rapture, the possible role of the Roman Catholic Church in end time prophecies, and about the possible identity of the antichrist.

No one appeared to ask when the world can be expected to end, but Robertson had an answer for that anyway.

"It will end when the Gospel is preached to the whole world as a witness," Robertson concluded in Wednesday's program.

The "Sign of the Times" program runs through the rest of the week.




Posted by
Victor Sidhu


at
Friday, August 26, 2011












Email This

BlogThis!

Share to Twitter

Share to Facebook

Share to Google Buzz












Reactions: 









0
comments:
        








Post a Comment

























Newer Post


Older Post

Home




Subscribe to:
Post Comments (Atom)
















The Vision (1973) - Prophet David Wilkerson













Search This Blog


Loading...













Translator

Get the Google Site Translator (mini) widget and many other great free widgets at Widgetbox! Not seeing a widget? (More info)



























This Site is AnswerTips enabled. Just double click on any word on this site to get a quick reference















Jesus knew the pain you feel and He is able today to set you free.





TCC - Church (Come and communion with God)











Words of Wisdom

There is so much good in the worst of us, and so much bad in the best of us that it hardly becomes any of us, to talk about the rest of us. - Pr. Irvin Baxtor   











David Wilkerson Today


Loading...









































Let us unite and fight Racism, together we can make a difference.
















Favourite Websites


Online Encyclopedia
No more secrets with WikiLeaks
Audio Bible - Listen to the Bible online
End Time Ministries - Christian News
The Watchman Cry - Prophecy News
Joshi Network - Online Hotel Reservation
Malaysia Kini - Malaysian Politics
Malaysia Today - Malaysian Politics
The Malaysian Insider - Malaysian Politics












Blog Archive





August 2010 (8)
      

September 2010 (59)
      

October 2010 (128)
      

November 2010 (95)
      

December 2010 (60)
      

January 2011 (41)
      

February 2011 (78)
      

March 2011 (70)
      

April 2011 (39)
      

May 2011 (9)
      

June 2011 (6)
      

July 2011 (24)
      

August 2011 (39)
      

September 2011 (3)
      














Followers




















































BIBLE SEARCH



Lookup a word or passage in the Bible








Include this form on your page


















Hit Counter






















Awesome Inc. template. Powered by Blogger.
































