Magnitude 5.8 Earthquake Hits Virginia, Sends Shockwaves Throughout East Coast | FoxNews.com





























Skip to main content: Latino/SBC/Fox Business (Home/Slideshow/Interactive: Fox News/SBC/Latino/Fox Business)
Skip to main content: Fox News/Fox Business (Article Page: Fox News/SBC/Latino/Fox Business)






Fox News Digital Network
  Fox News
  Fox Business
  Small Business Center
  Fox News Radio
  Fox News Latino
  Fox Nation
  Fox News Insider



Register
Login




Account


You're logged in as Account

Edit Profile
Logout








Wednesday, April 7, 2010 as of 11:14 AM ET


Search Site






On Air Now » Anchors and Reporters »
 






Home
Video
Politics
U.S.
Opinion
Entertainment
SciTech
Health
Travel
Leisure
World
Sports
On Air






Previous Slide Next Slide





Special Report
Weekdays 6p et



Fox Report
Weekdays 7p et



The O'Reilly Factor
Weekdays 8p et



Hannity
Weekdays 9p et



On The Record
Weekdays 10p et



America Live
Weekdays 1p et



America's News HQ
Weekends 12p et



America's Newsroom
Weekdays 9a et



The Cost of Freedom
Saturday 10a et



The Five
Weekdays 5p et



Fox & Friends
Weekdays 6a et



Fox News Sunday
Sunday 2p et



Fox News Watch
Saturday 2:30p et



Geraldo at Large
Weekends 10p et



Happening Now
Weekdays 11a et



Huckabee
Saturday 8p et



The Journal Editorial Report
Saturday 2p et



Justice with Judge Jeanine
Saturday 9p et



Red Eye w/ Gutfeld
Weekdays 3a et



Studio B
Weekdays 3p et



War Stories
Saturday 2a et



Your World Cavuto
Weekdays 4p et










U.S. HOME
		  
		      
		          



Crime
		  
		      
		          



Economy
		  
		      
		          



Immigration
		  
		      
		          



Disasters
		  
		      
		          



National Interest
		  
		      
		          



Terror
		  
		      
		          



Military
		  
		      
		          



Religion
		  
		      
		          



Education
		  
		      
		          



Road to Recovery
		  
		      
		          

























	  	   National Interest
Magnitude 5.8 Earthquake Hits Virginia, Sends Shockwaves Throughout East Coast




Published August 23, 2011 | FoxNews.com

Print
Email
Share
Comments
Recommend
Tweet






An unusually strong magnitude 5.8 earthquake struck central Virginia Tuesday afternoon and sent tremors along the East Coast, which prompted office buildings from Washington D.C. to New York to be evacuated.
There were no immediate reports of injury or serious structural damage.
The earthquake struck near Mineral, Va., more than three miles below sea level, the U.S. Geological Survey said. Mineral is town 83 miles from D.C. and has been known for its seismic activity, but seldom produces a substantial earthquake.
Most of downtown D.C. was evacuated, including the U.S. Capitol, the Pentagon and other office buildings. Pictures on the wall in the Capitol building reportedly fell and panicked workers ran to the exits, apparently fearing a 9/11-style attack. Workers were initially told not to re-enter the buildings, but were later allowed to enter the Capitol building.
Marine helicopters were seen hovering above the D.C, and there were reports that the Washington Monument may be tilting.
The National Park Service later completed a secondary inspection of the Washington Monument and found some cracking in the stones at the top of the Monument, according to a press release. 
The NPS will have structural engineers evaluate the cracks on Wednesday to determine the best way to repair the Monument before reopening it to the public, said the statement. 
The press corp with President Obama in Martha's Vineyard said they felt slight shaking. Obama told reporters that he did not feel the tremor. Attorney General Eric Holder has been evacuated from the Department of Justice.
Obama and many of the nation's leaders were out of town on August vacation when the quake struck at 1:51 p.m. local time.
"People pouring out of buildings and onto the sidewalks and Into Farragut Park in downtown DC...," GOP strategist Kevin Madden tweeted, MyFoxDC.com reported.
At Reagan National Airport outside Washington, ceiling tiles fell during a few seconds of shaking. Authorities put all flights on hold.
A spokesman for Washington National Cathedral said at least three of the four pinnacles on the central tower have fallen off and the central tower appears to be leaning.
New York also felt tremors from the earthquake.
Buildings in New York City shook briefly and the FBI building was evacuated. Flights resumed at John F. Kennedy International Airport and Newark Airport, where control towers were previously evacuated. Evacuations were demanded as north as Canada.
Federal officials say two nuclear reactors were taken offline near quake site in Virginia; there was no damage reported. Indian Point, a power plant in New York, said on Twitter that there are no issues at the facility. 
The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) said in a statement that it is monitoring the situation and in "close contact" with federal and state partners.
The East Coast gets earthquakes, but usually smaller ones and is less prepared than California or Alaska for shaking. The Washington area has had small, infrequent earthquakes over the years, including a 2.5-magnitude quake in 1997 that was within 25 to 30 miles of Friday's quake and a 2.3-magnitude quake in 1996 that was within 15 miles
Phone companies said they are being overwhelmed with phone calls, but said none of their infrastructure have been damaged.
FEMA requested that the public use e-mail or text messages in non-emergency cases so emergency officials can continue to receive and respond to urgent calls.
U.S. weather service says no tsunami expected after East Coast.
 Subways in New York have not been affected, but the Metro in D.C. had been temporarily cancelled. 
Amtrak said its trains along the Northeast Corridor between Baltimore and Washington were operating at reduced speeds and crews were inspecting stations and railroad infrastructure before returning to normal, crews have since finished the inspection and operations have reportedly returned to normal. 
Please click here for more from MyFoxDC.com
The Associated Press contributed to this report.                
 

Related Video





D.C. Reacts to Quake
Buildings evacuated after tremor


Related Stories
Quake Expert Says Dual Quakes in Colorado and East Coast Unrelated
Washington D.C. Area Has History of Quakes
5.8 Magnitude Earthquake Disrupts East Coast Transportation
Two Nuclear Reactors Taken Offline Following 5.8 Magnitude Earthquake in Virginia
Relentless Rally: Traders Unshaken by Quake, Economy
The Tweet That Shook the World
Earthquake Damages Washington National Cathedral



Aug. 23: Buildings in New York City shook briefly due to tremors from a 5.9 magnitude earthquake in Virginia. 


Related Video





Earthquake Rattles East Coast Residents
Seismologist offers insight on Virginia quake




Print
Email
Share
Comments
Recommend
Tweet




View Article



Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.

You must login to comment.

View Article


















Advertisement














WATCH: Justin Bieber Crusades Against Texting While Driving (Is It a For-Profit Career Move?)

July 19, 2011




Bride Wears Gown For Mugshot Following Wedding Day Arrest

July 19, 2011




Cat Stabs Man (Or So He Says)

July 19, 2011




Ford Expands F-150 Pickup Recall to Nearly 1.2 Million Vehicles

April 14, 2011




15 Most Annoying Things About Flying The Unfriendly Skies

July 19, 2011











Latest Videos







Felony Charges for Fake Teen Doctor
		      
		          
		              








9/11 Coloring Book Causes Controversy
		      
		          
		              





More ›









Trending  in U.S.


1

Newborn Fatally Mauled by Family Dog Near Houston
		      
		          
		      
		  


2

Wildfires Scorch Thousands of Acres in Texas, Kill 2
		      
		          
		      
		  


3

Man Killed in Airplane Collision With Girlfriend Over Alaska
		      
		          
		      
		  


4

Illegal Immigrant Allegedly Tricked Out of $3M Lottery Win Will Collect Prize
		      
		          
		      
		  


5

Colorado School Comes Under Fire for Hanging Saudi Flag Higher Than American Flag
		      
		          
		      
		  





See all trends













Game Show For Rejected Asylum Seekers Turns Their Plight Into TV Entertainment
		  
		      
		  
		


Bats invade Transylvanian Classroom
		  
		      
		  
		


Atlanta Man Leaps Out Of Jeep, Saves A Life, But Doesn't See Himself As Hero
		  
		      
		  
		


Virginia City Limits Confederate Flag-Flying
		  
		      
		  
		


Adult Sandbox Opens Near Las Vegas Strip
		  
		      
		  
		











Advertisement
















What to Watch This Week: Yoga Pants, Contagious Viruses, Netflix, and More


'I Was Scammed by Phone Crammers': Readers' True Stories


Advice for a Stay-at-Home Mom Trying to Reenter the Job Market


Ladurée in New York: France's Iconic Macaron Sets Out to Conquer America


What's More Important: Saving or Paying Down Debts?


















McGurn: The President's Speech Impediment


Larry J. Sabato: The 2012 Election Will Come Down to Seven States


John Yoo: Ten Years Without an Attack


Texas and Health Care


Congress and Taiwan


















Rep. Mike Grimm to introduce bill to make WTC cross a national monument


Four police officers testify at Mubarak trial


Man held after allegedly rushing for plane exit, biting flight crew member


Councilman Williams, public advocate staffer busted after West Indian Day Parade


Search on for arsonist that torched building at LI toxic site: police


















Italian President warns on "alarming" debt signals


ECB's Trichet convinced Greece will take action


G7 to seek ways to prop up global economic growth: source


WTO Rules Against China Over U.S. Tire Tariffs


Deutsche says Europe crisis could kill weak banks


















One Small Business Could Win Big at Atlanta Motor Speedway


How  We're Using Social Media to Expand the Brand


Is Your Data Safe from a Natural Disaster?


Tweet Business of the Day: Handy's Lunch


August's Small Business Monthly News


















Game Show For Rejected Asylum Seekers Turns Their Plight Into TV Entertainment


Bats invade Transylvanian Classroom


Atlanta Man Leaps Out Of Jeep, Saves A Life, But Doesn't See Himself As Hero


Virginia City Limits Confederate Flag-Flying


Adult Sandbox Opens Near Las Vegas Strip

















Sections



Home
Video
Politics
U.S.
Opinion
Entertainment
SciTech
Health
Travel
Leisure
World
Sports
Weather







Shows



America Live
America's News HQ
America's Newsroom
Cavuto
Fox News Sunday
Fox & Friends
Fox & Friends Weekend
Fox News Watch
Fox Report
Geraldo at Large
Greta
Hannity







 



Happening Now
Huckabee
Justice with Judge Jeanine
Red Eye w/ Gutfeld
Special Report
Specials
Studio B
The Cost of Freedom
The Five
The Journal Editorial Report
The O' Reilly Factor
War Stories







Tools



uReport
Newsletters & Alerts
Blogs
Mobile
Podcasts
Radio
Fox News Store
Apps & Downloads







About



Careers
Internships - FNCU
Fox Around the World
Advertise With Us
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy (Updated!)
Ad Choices
Contact Us
Email Newsroom
FAQ
Press







Follow




  Facebook


  Twitter


  YouTube


  RSS


  Newsletters












This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.	©2011 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes.








