Media Silent On Fate Of Anna Nuclear Plant At Epicenter Of 5.9 Mineral Virginia Earthquake








 











Alexander Higgins Blog 
The Latest Buzz, Analysis, and News Without the Snooze!
 


 
 





Home
Headlines
Authors
About
Subscribe, Friend or Follow
Advertise

 
 





  
 





Economy

Environment

Headlines

Health

Member Submitted

Projects

Society

Technology

The Alexander Higgins Show

Uncategorized

US

Videos

Web Development

World


 
 





Email Subscription
 


Comments
 


Posts
 
 
 
















 

Media Silent On Fate Of Anna Nuclear Plant At Epicenter Of 5.9 Mineral Virginia Earthquake





				  Posted by 
				Alexander Higgins				-
				August 23, 2011 at 2:39 pm				-
				Permalink
				 - 
				Source
				 via
				Alexander Higgins Blog


 

Rate This Post  
 Loading ...


























Share






















Tweet






Tweet
A massive 5.9 earthquake, the largest ever in recorded history, which has been felt across the U.S. from Colorado To Massachusetts,  has an epicenter near Mineral Virginia’s Anna Nuclear Power Plant.
Google Earth - Locations Of Virginia Quake Epicenter Compared To Anna Nuclear Plant
The 2011 Virginia earthquake was a magnitude 5.9 (Mw) intraplate earthquake that occurred on August 23, 2011. The focus is reported by the USGS to be about 64 km (39 mi) northwest of Richmond, Virginia near the town of Mineral, Virginia. [1][2]
The earthquake was the highest-magnitude event in Virginia in recorded history.[3]
Impact
At approximately 2:12 PM EST, tremors were felt as far away as Ontario, Canada, Michigan, Pennsylvania, Ohio, South Carolina, North Carolina, and Massachusetts. In Washington, DC the Capitol building and the Pentagon were evacuated, as were many buildings in New York City.[4][5][1][6]
[...]
References


^ abc“Magnitude 5.9 – VIRGINIA”.
^ ab“BBC News – Earthquake strikes US east coast”. bbc.co.uk. 2011 [last update]. Retrieved 23 August 2011.
^“Largest earthquake in Virginia State history strikes on Tuesday afternoon measuring almost 6.0″. http://www.theweatherspace.com. 2011 [last update]. Retrieved 23 August 2011.
^Magnitude 5.9 Earthquake Hits Virginia, Sends Shockwaves Throughout East Coast | FoxNews.com
^5.9 magnitude quake rocks East Coast
^“5.9 earthquake hits Virginia, rattles NYC, east coast”. ABC News. 23 August 2011. Retrieved 23 August 2011.


Source: WikiPedia
Location of North Anna Nuclear Generating Station
While no damage, injuries, or deaths has been reported at the moment there is one thing the media is being suspiciously quiet about.
The epicenter of the quake Mineral Virginia, which is the location of the Anna Nuclear Power Plant.
According MSNBC, the plant was among the list of nuclear power plants at most risk to suffer core damage from an earthquake.
In fact the list, compiled from NRC data, showed that the Anna nuclear plant was the 7th most likely reactor to suffer core damage with a 1 in 22,727 chance of being struck by an earthquake based on 2008 geological data.
The top 10
Here are the 10 nuclear power sites with the highest risk of an earthquake causing core damage, showing their NRC risk estimates based on 2008 and 1989 geological data.
1. Indian Point 3, Buchanan, N.Y.: 1 in 10,000 chance each year. Old estimate: 1 in 17,241. Increase in risk: 72 percent.
2. Pilgrim 1, Plymouth, Mass.: 1 in 14,493. Old estimate: 1 in 125,000. Increase in risk: 763 percent.
3. Limerick 1 and 2, Limerick, Pa.: 1 in 18,868. Old estimate: 1 in 45,455. Increase in risk: 141 percent.
4. Sequoyah 1 and 2, Soddy-Daisy, Tenn.: 1 in 19,608. Old estimate: 1 in 102,041. Increase in risk: 420 percent.
5. Beaver Valley 1, Shippingport, Pa.: 1 in 20,833. Old estimate: 1 in 76,923. Increase in risk: 269 percent.
6. Saint Lucie 1 and 2, Jensen Beach, Fla.: 1 in 21,739. Old estimate: N/A.
7. North Anna 1 and 2, Louisa, Va.: 1 in 22,727. Old estimate: 1 in 31,250. Increase in risk: 38 percent.
8. Oconee 1, 2 and 3, Seneca, S.C.: 1 in 23,256. Old estimate: 1 in 100,000. Increase in risk: 330 percent.
9. Diablo Canyon 1 and 2, Avila Beach, Calif.: 1 in 23,810. Old estimate: N/A.
10. Three Mile Island, Middletown, Pa.: 1 in 25,000. Old estimate: 1 in 45,455. Increase in risk: 82 percent.
(This short list of the top 10 sites, or plants, groups together reactors at the same site if they have the same risk rating, such as Sequoyah 1 and 2. The full list of 104 separate reactors is below at the bottom of the text.)
Source: MSNBC
But here is the real kicker, that data used to come up with that risk showed the area just hit by the quake wasn’t even in a high risk earthquake zone.
U.S. Geological Survey - Based on 2008 data, a map of earthquake damage risk in the United States. The highest risk areas are purple, red and orange.
Now we have the highest earthquake ever recorded in the area to hit the nuclear reactor which shows the NRC risk assessment of potential earthquake activity was flawed.
U.S. Geological Survey - Based on 1982 data, a map of earthquake damage risk in the continental United States. The highest risk areas are red, yellow and purple.
In fact they knew it was flawed because as the MSNBC report points out above there North Anna 1 and 2, Louisa, Va. had a 1 in 22,727 chance of core damage based on 2008 data.
The risk was revised upward by 38 percent based on the risk assessment compiled from the 1982 data.
One more parting point, TEPCO’s – and in fact the nuclear industry’s – dirty little secret.
The nuclear meltdown in Japan didn’t happen because of the Tsunami as they first told us. The meltdown was caused by damage from the earthquake before the Tsunami hit. While it may have been a 9.0 earthquake out in the Pacific, it was only a 6.4 at the nuclear power plant itself.

TEPCO’s Darkest Secret – A Weak Earthquake Caused The Nuclear Meltdown Not The Tsunami
The Fukushima Daiichi Reactors Were in Meltdown After the Earthquake, But Before the Tsunami Hit.
Note: While the earthquake that caused the massive tsunami is now estimated to be 9.0 in magnitude the strength of the quake when it hit the Fukushima nuclear reactor hundreds of kilometers away was a relatively weak 6.4 magnitude earthquake. This weak earthquake caused the caused the Fukushima nuclear meltdown – not the Tsunami – which raises red flags about the safety of nuclear reactors around the world.
David McNeill and Jake Adelstein
Counter Punch via Activists Post


WIKI Commons Image – Fukushima Nuclear Power Plant

It is one of the mysteries of Japan’s ongoing nuclear crisis: How much damage did the March 11 earthquake do to the Fukushima Daiichi reactors before the tsunami hit? The stakes are high: If the quake structurally compromised the plant and the safety of its nuclear fuel, then every other similar reactor in Japan will have to be reviewed and possibly shut down. With virtually all of Japan’s 54 reactors either offline (35) or scheduled for shutdown by next April, the issue of structural safety looms over the decision to restart every one in the months and years after.
The key question for operator Tokyo Electric Power Co (TEPCO) and its regulators to answer is this: How much damage was inflicted on the Daiichi plant before the first tsunami reached the plant roughly 40 minutes after the earthquake? TEPCO and the Japanese government are hardly reliable adjudicators in this controversy. “There has been no meltdown,” top government spokesman Edano Yukio famously repeated in the days after March 11. “It was an unforeseeable disaster,” Tepco’s then President Shimizu Masataka improbably said later. As we now know, meltdown was already occurring even as Edano spoke. And far from being unforeseeable, the disaster had been repeatedly forewarned.
Read The Rest…
 Related Posts
 

Two Nuclear Reactors Taken Offline, 9 Declare Unusual Events, After Virginia Earthquake
After raising the question on why the media was being silent on the fate of the Anna Virginia nuclear reactors we learn the earthquake has taken 2 nuclear plants offline.




A ...

READ MORE 

Feds Allowing Tritium Radiation Catastrophe Cover Up At North Anna VA Nuclear Plant?
Nuclear industry watchdogs warn the North Anna nuclear plant may be leaking radioactive tritium due to damage in underground pipes from the Virginia earthquake.
On August 24th, a 5.8 earthquake struck ...

READ MORE 

TEPCO’s Darkest Secret – A Weak Earthquake Caused The Nuclear Meltdown Not The Tsunami
The Fukushima Daiichi Reactors Were in Meltdown After the Earthquake, But Before the Tsunami Hit.
Note: While the earthquake that caused the massive tsunami is now estimated to be 9.0 in ...

READ MORE 

Anna Nuclear Plant Forced To Vent Steam Following Power Failure From Virginia Earthquake
The Anna nuclear power plant, hit by the Virginia Earthquake, was forced to release steam after losing electricity and a generator used to cool the plant failed.
Earlier today two of ...

READ MORE 

Backup Generator Cooling Nuclear Power Plant Shutdown By Virginia Quake Fails
The NRC is now reporting one of the four back up generators that has been shutdown at the epicenter of the 5.9 Virginia earthquake has failed.
There has been a series ...

READ MORE 

Videos Of News Coverage Of The Mineral Virginia Earthquake
Videos of news coverage of the Mineral Virginia 5.9 earthquake with an epicenter near the Anna nuclear power plant.
Also, see these important related stories the media is burying.

Two Nuclear Reactors ...

READ MORE 

Officials Admit North Anna Fuel Bunker Damaged By Quake As Feds Launch Reactor Core Damage Inspection
The Feds have deployed an augmented inspection team to check the North Anna nuclear plant reactor core for damage as officials admit concealing the spent fuel bunker was damaged and ...

READ MORE 

Fukushima Is Continually Blasting All Of Us With High Levels Of Cesium, Strontium And Plutonium And Will Slowly Kill Millions For Years To Come
End Of The American Dream
August 31, 2011

Fukushima is now far and away the worst nuclear disaster in all of human history. Chernobyl was a Sunday picnic compared to Fukushima and ...

READ MORE 

Japan Witheld Nuclear Meltdown Simulation Showing 18,000 Deaths And 55 Mile Dead Zone
Japan Withheld A Nuclear Meltdown Simulation Showing 18,000 Deaths From Acute Radiation Poisoning And 55 Mile Uninhabitable Radius Do To Fears It Would Damage The Nuclear Industry

A report from The Asahi ...

READ MORE 

Rapid Spike In Radiation Halts Clean-Up At Fukushima Nuclear Power Plant
A rapid spike in radiation levels at the Fukushima nuclear power plant has halted the clean-up process. TEPCO says if the problem is not brought under control within a week ...

READ MORE 

Head of Fukushima health study says 100 mSv/yr OK for pregnant moms
The Head of the Fukushima Health Study says that 100 millisieverts a year of radiation is safe even for pregnant mom and radiation effects do not come to happy people, ...

READ MORE 

Al-Jazeera Blasts The Money Trail Funding The Nuclear Industry Cover Up Of The Fukushima Disaster
Al-Jazeera blasts the nuclear industry's use of power and money to exert their influence over corrupt politicians and academics to cover up the Fukushima nuclear disaster.
A featured article now on ...

READ MORE 

Scandal: Japan Arrests People For Collecting Radioactive Rubble While Claiming No Radiation In The Area
As Japan insisted Fukushima was not leaking radiation into the surrounding environment in March, the government was arresting people over 60 kilometers from Fukushima for collecting radioactive rubble without a ...

READ MORE 

Guardian: Leaked Emails Reveal Government Conspiracy To Downplay Fukushima Nuclear Disaster
The British newspaper The Guardian has obtained emails showing that government officials conspired with the nuclear industry to downplay and coverup the Fukushima nuclear disaster to prevent damage to the ...

READ MORE 

Fukushima Nuclear Fuel Leaking Into Groundwater, Tepco Says Barrier Too Expensive, Will Hurt Stock Price
Japan is reporting that Fukushima nuclear fuel has burned through the containment vessel and is sitting on the concrete foundation of the plant leaking into the groundwater. TEPCO says an ...

READ MORE 

Associated Press Rails Japan Government For Nuclear Radiation Data Cover Up
For almost 3 months now independent experts have warned that Governments and the nuclear industry always cover up nuclear disasters. They have repeatedly warned that those in power will only ...

READ MORE 

Two Nuclear Reactors Taken Offline, 9 Declare Unusual 

Feds Allowing Tritium Radiation Catastrophe Cover Up At 

TEPCO’s Darkest Secret – A Weak Earthquake Caused 

Anna Nuclear Plant Forced To Vent Steam Following 

Backup Generator Cooling Nuclear Power Plant Shutdown By 

Videos Of News Coverage Of The Mineral Virginia 

Officials Admit North Anna Fuel Bunker Damaged By 

Fukushima Is Continually Blasting All Of Us With 

Japan Witheld Nuclear Meltdown Simulation Showing 18,000 Deaths 

Rapid Spike In Radiation Halts Clean-Up At Fukushima 

Head of Fukushima health study says 100 mSv/yr 

Al-Jazeera Blasts The Money Trail Funding The Nuclear 

Scandal: Japan Arrests People For Collecting Radioactive Rubble 

Guardian: Leaked Emails Reveal Government Conspiracy To Downplay 

Fukushima Nuclear Fuel Leaking Into Groundwater, Tepco Says 

Associated Press Rails Japan Government For Nuclear Radiation 






Readers who viewed this page, also viewed: TEPCO’s Darkest Secret – A Weak Earthquake Caused The Nuclear Meltdown Not The Tsunami Police Kill Autistic Man, Taser Mentally Disabled Man Holding Hands Up To Surrender Daily Doublespeak 4-7-2010 — Nuclear Expert Says Feds Hiding Truth About Japan Nuclear Reactor Disaster Huge Must See Hurricane #Irene Satellite Photo – Spans From Florida To Canada Hurricane Irene – Mandatory Evacuation Order For 1 Million Cape May, NJ Residents. Feds Allowing Tritium Radiation Catastrophe Cover Up At North Anna VA Nuclear Plant?Related PostsTwo Nuclear Reactors Taken Offline, 9 Declare Unusual Events, After Virginia Earthquake Feds Allowing Tritium Radiation Catastrophe Cover Up At North Anna VA Nuclear Plant?TEPCO’s Darkest Secret – A Weak Earthquake Caused The Nuclear Meltdown Not The TsunamiAnna Nuclear Plant Forced To Vent Steam Following Power Failure From Virginia EarthquakeBackup Generator Cooling Nuclear Power Plant Shutdown By Virginia Quake FailsVideos Of News Coverage Of The Mineral Virginia EarthquakeOfficials Admit North Anna Fuel Bunker Damaged By Quake As Feds Launch Reactor Core Damage InspectionFukushima Is Continually Blasting All Of Us With High Levels Of Cesium, Strontium And Plutonium And Will Slowly Kill Millions For Years To ComeJapan Witheld Nuclear Meltdown Simulation Showing 18,000 Deaths And 55 Mile Dead ZoneRapid Spike In Radiation Halts Clean-Up At Fukushima Nuclear Power PlantHead of Fukushima health study says 100 mSv/yr OK for pregnant moms Al-Jazeera Blasts The Money Trail Funding The Nuclear Industry Cover Up Of The Fukushima DisasterScandal: Japan Arrests People For Collecting Radioactive Rubble While Claiming No Radiation In The AreaGuardian: Leaked Emails Reveal Government Conspiracy To Downplay Fukushima Nuclear DisasterFukushima Nuclear Fuel Leaking Into Groundwater, Tepco Says Barrier Too Expensive, Will Hurt Stock PriceAssociated Press Rails Japan Government For Nuclear Radiation Data Cover UpPost Navigation:


Previous Post: Department Of Justice Criminal Probe Investigates BP For Faulty Oil Spill Estimates 
Next Post: Two Nuclear Reactors Taken Offline, 9 Declare Unusual Events, After Virginia Earthquake




 




					14 comments - What do you think?
	
						
			  Posted by
				Alexander Higgins								 - 
				 at 2:39 pm			
Categories:
				Environment, Society, US			 Tags:
				23 august, abc news, activists, adelstein, bbc news, Canada, Canyon, capitol building, compromise, continent, continental united states, controversy, counter punch, decision, disaster, earthquake hits, earthquake in virginia, earthquake strikes, east coast, epicenter, estimates, foxnews com, fukushima, Fukushima nuclear meltdown, Fukushima nuclear power plant, Government, government spokesman, higgins, history strikes, japanese government, kilometers, largest earthquake, magnitude, magnitude earthquake, magnitude quake, masataka, Massachusetts, mineral virginia, MSNBC, north anna, North Carolina, nuclear crisis, nuclear fuel, nuclear generating station, nuclear industry, nuclear plant, Nuclear power, nuclear power plant, nuclear power plants, nuclear reactor, nuclear reactors, Pacific, quake rocks, Richmond, richmond virginia, risk, South Carolina, structural safety, tepco, three mile island, tokyo electric, tremors, tsunam, tsunami, United States, Virginia, virginia earthquake, virginia state, wikipedia 


 




14 Responses to “Media Silent On Fate Of Anna Nuclear Plant At Epicenter Of 5.9 Mineral Virginia Earthquake”








 Michael Rivero says: 

			August 23, 2011 at 4:04 pm 
Like or Dislike:  0  0There are some mis-statements in this article. The 5.9 quake is one of the largest ever felt in Virginia, but it is not the biggest in history nor was not felt in Colorado, which had its own quake this morning.

Reply 





Media Silent On Fate Of Anna Nuclear Plant At Epicenter Of 5.9 Mineral Virginia Earthquake « Zenobiusz's Blog says: 

			August 23, 2011 at 4:18 pm 
Like or Dislike:  0  0[...] Posted by zenobiusz w dniu Sierpień 23, 2011   Media Silent On Fate Of Anna Nuclear Plant At Epicenter Of 5.9 Mineral Virginia Earthquake [...]

Reply 





Two Nuclear Reactors Taken Offline, 9 Declare Unusual Events, After Virginia Earthquake says: 

			August 23, 2011 at 4:21 pm 
Like or Dislike:  0  0[...] Media Silent On Fate Of Anna Nuclear Plant At Epicenter Of 5.9 Mineral Virginia Earthquake [...]

Reply 





Evacuations are﻿ heavy. Too heavy for just a 5.9 EQ!! Something's up!! says: 

			August 23, 2011 at 4:44 pm 
Like or Dislike:  0  0[...] Post: #31 RE: Evacuations are﻿ heavy. Too heavy for just a 5.9 EQ!! Something's up!!   http://blog.alexanderhiggins.com/2011/08…ake-63361/ [...]

Reply 





Videos Of News Coverage Of The Mineral Virginia Earthquake says: 

			August 23, 2011 at 4:59 pm 
Like or Dislike:  0  0[...] Media Silent On Fate Of Anna Nuclear Plant At Epicenter Of 5.9 Mineral Virginia Earthquake [...]

Reply 





ProxyWhore says: 

			August 23, 2011 at 5:21 pm 
Like or Dislike:  0  0[...] A Selection Of Videos Of The Earthquake In VirginiaMedia Silent On Fate Of Anna Nuclear Plant At Epicenter Of 5.9 Mineral Virginia Earthquake [...]

Reply 





1 of 4 Backup Generators Cooling Nuclear Power Plant Shutdown By Virginia Quake Fails : says: 

			August 23, 2011 at 9:48 pm 
Like or Dislike:  0  0[...] Read more… [...]

Reply 





You've been Stumbled! says: 

			August 23, 2011 at 11:02 pm 
Like or Dislike:  0  0[...] You've been Stumbled! [...]

Reply 





Backup Generator Cooling Nuclear Power Plant Shutdown By Virginia Quake Fails says: 

			August 24, 2011 at 2:23 am 
Like or Dislike:  0  0[...] Media Silent On Fate Of Anna Nuclear Plant At Epicenter Of 5.9 Mineral Virginia Earthquake [...]

Reply 





Anna Nuclear Plant Forced To Vent Steam Following Power Failure From Virginia Earthquake says: 

			August 24, 2011 at 2:44 am 
Like or Dislike:  0  0[...] Media Silent On Fate Of Anna Nuclear Plant At Epicenter Of 5.9 Mineral Virginia Earthquake [...]

Reply 





North Anna Nuclear Plant Forced To Vent Steam Following Power Failure From Virginia Earthquake : says: 

			August 24, 2011 at 5:19 am 
Like or Dislike:  0  0[...] As reported earlier, the media initially ignored reporting on the status of the North Anna nuclear power plant near the epicenter of today’s Virgina earthquake. Media Silent On Fate Of Anna Nuclear Plant At Epicenter Of 5.9 Mineral Virginia Earthquake [...]

Reply 





1 of 4 Backup Generators Cooling Nuclear Power Plant Shutdown By Virginia Quake Fails | Sovereign Independent says: 

			August 25, 2011 at 1:43 am 
Like or Dislike:  0  0[...] Read more… [...]

Reply 





Feds Allowing Tritium Radiation Catastrophe Cover Up At North Anna VA Nuclear Plant? says: 

			August 31, 2011 at 8:31 pm 
Like or Dislike:  0  0[...] On August 24th, a 5.8 earthquake struck Mineral Virginia which sent shock waves all over the eastern seaboard being felt from Colorado to Massachusetts, from South Carolina to Ontario Canada, after which the media was silent on the fate of the North Anna nuclear plant which is located at the epicenter o…. [...]

Reply 





Feds Allowing Tritium Radiation Catastrophe Cover Up At North Anna VA Nuclear Plant? : says: 

			August 31, 2011 at 9:46 pm 
Like or Dislike:  0  0[...] being felt from Colorado to Massachusetts and from South Carolina to Ontario Canada, after which the media was silent on the fate of the North Anna nuclear plant which is located at the epicenter of the [...]

Reply 








Leave a Comment
Note: During times of high traffic your comment may take several minutes to appear. There is no need to double post.

Click here to cancel reply.



Name (required)

Mail (will not be published) (required)

Website









Notify me of followup comments via e-mail



 

 

 






Submit A Tip 



Submit a tip (You will remain anonymous).







Help Support This Site! 






 
 




 
 



Meta 
Register Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org
[Un]Subscribe to Posts

 
 



TEPCO And TBS JNN HD LIVE Fukushima Web Cam Feed Fukushima Nuclear Reactor Official TEPCO and TBS JNN HD Live Video Webcam Stream Feed

Real Time US Radiation Monitoring Updated With Real Time EPA RadNet Japan Nuclear Radiation Monitoring For Every Major City In The Entire US On A Single PageReal time US radiation monitoring of Japan nuclear radioactive fallout for major US west coast cities.

Alexander’s Featured Videos View All Of My Videos Here

 

Most Popular Recent Posts

Real Time EPA RadNet Japan Nuclear Radiation Monitoring For Every Major City In The Entire US On A... - 36,127 reads
Unbelievable! Court Rules US Taxpayers, Not BP Or Transocean, Are Liable For Gulf Oil Spill Clean Up... - 29,966 reads
TSA Police Beat Unsuspecting Girl At Airport Causing Brain Damage At Reagan National Airport - 25,745 reads
Flesh Eating Disease In Cocaine Found In New York, Los Angeles - Cocaine Supply Of Entire Nation May... - 23,103 reads
Greek Army Threatens Military Coup Sparking Fears of Military Uprisings And Civil Wars Breaking Out... - 20,825 reads
Real Time US Radiation Monitoring Of Japan Nuclear Radioactivity Fallout - 20,357 reads
Police Beating A 16 Year Old Girl Sparked London Riots Violence - 20,334 reads
Fort Calhoun Nuclear Plant Underwater- References of 10 Mile Mandatory Evacuation Area Scrubbed From... - 15,090 reads
Scientists Successfully Implant Chip That Controls The Brain Allowing Thoughts, Memory And Behavior... - 13,178 reads

Most Read Today

Police Severely Beat Man Half To Death For Bicycling Without Headlight - 520 reads
Feds Charge Man As Enemy Combatant Supporting Terrorism For Uploading Youtube Video - 418 reads
Feds Now "Duty-Bound To Confiscate" Silver And Gold Liberty Dollars As Illegal Contraband - 384 reads
Presenting Goldman Sachs Top Secret "The World Is Ending So Let's All Profit" Report - 326 reads
Facebook Pushing To Require Everyone's Online Activity Be Tracked By The Government - 256 reads
Real Time EPA RadNet Japan Nuclear Radiation Monitoring For Every Major City In The Entire US On A Single Page - 213 reads
#WikiLeaks - US, France Knew In 2007 Financial Collapse Was Imminent Due To Wall Street Fraud - 203 reads
France's CEREA - US Cesium Contamination Levels Exponentially Higher Than Parts Of Japan - 165 reads
Police Kill Autistic Man, Taser Mentally Disabled Man Holding Hands Up To Surrender - 102 reads


Search for:



Recent commentsCutting Through the Matrix With Alan Watt [06/13/2011] :: New World Order Blog on Physician and Epidemiologist Say 35% Spike in Infant Mortality in Northwest Cities Since Meltdown Might Be the Result of Fallout from FukushimaFeds Charge Man As Enemy Combatant Supporting Terrorism For Uploading Youtube Video - informationliberation on American College Student Gunned Down, Kidnapped and Tortured In Secret PrisonFeds Charge Man As Enemy Combatant Supporting Terrorism For Uploading Youtube Video - informationliberation on Obama orders targeted assassination of another U.S. citizen?10 Years After 9/11, Is America A Better Place? | Independent News Hub on Feds Charge Man As Enemy Combatant Supporting Terrorism For Uploading Youtube VideoObama’s DoJ: Constitutionalists, Survivalists Such As The Tea Party, Glen Beck, Sarah Palin And Ron Paul Are Potential Terrorists | Dprogram.net on Obama’s DoJ: Constitutionalists, Survivalists Such As The Tea Party, Glen Beck, Sarah Palin And Ron Paul Are Potential TerroristsFurther Reading
#WikiLeaks – US, France Knew In 2007 Financial Collapse Was Imminent Due To Wall Street Fraud
 
#WikiLeaks: Israel Warns Chemical Weapons Will Be Used Against Peaceful Palestine Protests
 
Police Kill Autistic Man, Taser Mentally Disabled Man Holding Hands Up To Surrender
 
Mega Disasters – Japan Great Earthquake 2011 Documentary
 
Epic Santelli Rant – The Real Spectacle Is Making Trillions In Debt And Robbing The Poor To Pay It Back
 
Police Severely Beat Man Half To Death For Bicycling Without Headlight
 
Feds Charge Man As Enemy Combatant Supporting Terrorism For Uploading Youtube Video
 
Presenting Goldman Sachs Top Secret “The World Is Ending So Let’s All Profit” Report
 
Feds Seek To Counter Imminent Bank Of America Collapse With Demand For Contigency Plans
 
Still Fucked 1 Year Later, Scientist Studying BP Gulf Oil Spill Impact Tells CNN

Browse Posts By Date
August 2011


M
T
W
T
F
S
S




« Jul
 
Sep »



1234567


891011121314


15161718192021


22232425262728


293031
 


Archives 
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
November 2009
July 2008

Latest twitter Posts Bring Out Your Dead  - UBS Quantifies Costs Of Euro Break Up, Warns Of Collapse Of Bankin... http://t.co/G5CP3BC via @kr3at headlines  Forget 'A Winter Of Discontent', Israel's Eisenberg Sees 'Winter Of Radical Islam' http://t.co/VhMmb9t via @kr3at headlines  Futures Re-Open...Down http://t.co/g03gSUC via @kr3at headlines  What Obama May Propose to Boost US Jobs, Economy http://t.co/0dtvxiT via @kr3at headlines  Guest Post: Unseemly Scramble For Libyaï¿½s Post-Gaddafi Oil Assets Underway http://t.co/rl3AnkF via @kr3at headlines  Watch The GOP Presidential Forum Live From South Carolina http://t.co/LBmWbK0 via @kr3at headlines  Bloomberg Ignores Major Stock Market Fall in Europe http://t.co/nvn6LNT via @kr3at headlines  BIG PIS: The CEO Of Europe's Most Troubled Bank, Dexia, Quits As Contagion Tsunami Sweeps... http://t.co/RJnD6zf via @kr3at headlines  To Celebrate Labor Day, Italian Unions Occupy Milan Stock Exchange http://t.co/dcMNZQb via @kr3at headlines  Feds say workers return to Gulf oil and gas jobs http://t.co/yUX8m5b via @kr3at headlines Feedjit Live Traffic Feed 
 
 


 






 

 
 
 





 

Copyright ©2010 Alexander Higgins  
 
 

 


 





 















 
