 Protecting Our Waters
Skip to content


Protecting Our Waters 



About
Take Action
Articles/Press Releases
Events
Multi-Media
News
Resources
Testimony/Public Comment
 




New environmental movement being born; 1,252 arrested in Tar Sands protests
September 5, 2011



by Iris Marie Bloom


With a major rally and march against fracking — dirty gas drilling, aka high-volume slickwater hydraulic fracturing — set for Wednesday September 7th in Philadelphia at noon, rain or shine, activists are simultaneously celebrating the conclusion of a major civil disobedience action in Washington, DC to protest the tar sands extraction in Canada and the proposed XL pipeline.
Gasland Director Josh Fox was among those arrested.  Most of the gas used to power the tar sands extraction is fracked gas, using a poisonous process to power a poisonous process to extract more climate-poisoning fossil fuels.  Here is Josh getting arrested.  His original “call to action” with a powerful overview of the issue is here.
Just as President Obama reneged on his promise to strenghen ozone emissions standards, the largest environmental protest in the history of our country ended this past Saturday.  Over the course of two weeks, 1,252 people, including many celebrities, were arrested in front of the White House, demanding that Obama follow his campaign pledge.
Vice President Al Gore also added his support to the protest, writing, “the leaders of the top environmental groups in the country, the Republican Governor of Nebraska, and millions of people around the country — including hundreds of people who have bravely participated in civil disobedience at the White House — all agree on one thing: President Obama should block the planned pipeline from the tar sands of Alberta to the Gulf of Mexico.  The tar sands are the dirtiest source of fuel on the planet.
Here’s the Tar Sands Action press release.
A related article published by the New York Times discusses how Obama’s anti-environmental actions have already lost him much of the support from his base.  If he’d like enthusiastic volunteers working for his next election, he needs to follow his campaign pledges and work to save our environment, rather than capitulate to large corporations.


 

Leave a comment
from → Multi-Media, Articles/Press Releases, News




Fact sheet about exposing children to hydraulic fracturing
September 4, 2011



by Iris Marie Bloom


Yesterday an impacted Butler County, PA resident reported that not only has her tap water been contaminated; not only has her family physician told her that members of her family show signs of arsenic poisoning — but now the creek nearby has foamy, sudsy water.  Rex Energy has fracked and now is flaring; the heat was so intense that, in combination with terrible chemical smells, she said it forced her family to stay indoors in the otherwise lovely weather.  She, like so many impacted parents, worries for her children.
Below is a step towards stronger involvement from the medical community in paying attention to the risks children, in particular, are exposed to in relation to the life-cycle impacts from high-volume slickwater hydraulic fracturing, or fracking.
“The Pediatric Environmental Health Specialty Units (PEHSU) Network encourage families, pediatricians, and communities to work together to ensure that children are protected from exposure to environmental hazards. Children are more vulnerable to environmental  hazards. They eat, drink, and breathe more than adults on a pound for pound basis.  Research has also shown that children are not able to metabolize some toxicants as well as adults due to immature detoxification processes.”
Here is a fact sheet for health care professionals on the dangers of exposing children to fracking and natural gas activity.
Thanks to Pennsylvania Campaign for Clean Water for sharing this fact sheet.
 

Leave a comment
from → News




Point of view: Real Reporting, and “Shale Gas Outrage”
August 30, 2011



by Iris Marie Bloom


Below is the original transcript of an article by Iris Marie Bloom published in the University City Review
Wed, Aug 24, 2011

On Wednesday, September 7th from 12 noon to 2 pm, on Arch Street between Broad and 13th Streets, a major rally called “Shale Gas Outrage” will take place in Philadelphia. The rest of this article underlines why you might want to be there.
My inbox is full of these personal stories about fracking (high-volume gas drilling) impacts, which never seem to get out to the rest of the public. Who knows why the larger newspapers seem to be asleep at the wheel? It’s hard to understand, but you, privileged readers, can say you found out first.
On August 20th, the small-town paper Butler Eagle reported yet another major incident of groundwater contamination from drilling and fracking operations in the Marcellus Shale, impacting at least a dozen families in Connoquenessing Township, in northwestern PA. “Two homeowners from Connoquenessing Woodlands… say their well water smelled horribly, ran black or came from the tap in the form of foam, which they blame on a nearby Rex Energy gas well off Woodlands Road.” The Eagle writer, Paula Grubbs, reports that the families “told stories of black, smelly water, foam spewing from every tap and in the toilet bowl, severe diarrhea and vomiting, and purple-stained dishes.” At least a dozen families can no longer drink or use their water at all.
The next day, August 21st, Susquehanna County resident Rebecca Roter called to describe a terrible new methane contamination incident in Susquehanna County, not far from where she lives. “I had to cry,” the usually levelheaded, data-oriented Rebecca told me, “before I could call DEP.” The Protecting Our Waters website will post an update about this incident at protectingourwaters.com.
Last month I interviewed Pat Farnelli of Dimock, PA (where an entire aquifer was contaminated by Cabot Oil and Gas beginning as early as 2008) who described vomiting so strenuously after drinking her once-clear tap water that she had to go on all fours. I also interviewed Carl and Judy Stiles, formerly of Sugar Run, Bradford County, PA where Chesapeake Energy is drilling heavily. They described terrible health symptoms including severe abdominal pain, and said they witnessed foam coming directly from the ground near their former home after Chesapeake began drilling and fracking nearby.
Today someone emailed me the account of Darrell Smitsky, from southwestern PA, near Hickory: “During the fracking of one of the Marcellus wells near Darrell’s house, a next door neighbor reported foam coming up out of the ground in his field. Around the same time, an abandoned well from the early 1900s, located just up the valley from Darrell and his neighbor, started spewing fluids…”
In other words, the industry – in Darrell’s case Range Resources – does not know what they are doing, and people like Darrell Smitsky and his goats pay the price. There are tens of thousands of abandoned, unplugged, un-mapped old wells in Pennsylvania, which is one of the huge risk factors nobody talks about. This problem alone, argues for a moratorium statewide right now to protect streams, rivers, animals’ lives and human health.
“Darrell Smitsky had eight healthy goats as Marcellus drilling got underway around him, but over a period of several months, five of the goats died, dropping off one by one. Darrell recalls that tragic time, ‘It was like their back legs became paralyzed, and I would have to carry them into the barn…’”
His family has occupied their rural home for more than four decades, and prior to Marcellus drilling, their well water was famous for its excellent quality and taste. There are now 17 Marcellus gas wells in the one-square mile area surrounding Darrell’s home, according to his personal account posted on the informative website “Marcellus-shale.us” and shared widely in emails to activists on August 22nd. Acrilonitrate, among other alarming contaminants, showed up in his water tests, and although he stopped drinking his water as soon as it went bad, photos show a rash on his leg which is similar to rashes experienced by other shale gas drilling victims who shower in their tap water.
“The fish in [Darrell’s] small backyard pond began exhibiting strange symptoms as well, with their scales breaking down and becoming translucent, prior to death….” Darrell’s account reads.
On September 7th and 8th the Marcellus Shale gas drilling industry is coming en masse to Philadelphia, in southeastern Pennsylvania – the only region of the state where human beings and animals have not yet been poisoned by gas drilling spills, accidents, emissions, methane migration and all the other fracking hazards. The industry-wide conference at Philadelphia’s Convention Center is called “Shale Gas Insight” – meaning insight into how to minimize regulation, maximize good PR for the industry, and attack the character of those who prioritize clean air, water, earth, and human health. No less than three PA governors will warmly address the frackers: former governor Ridge, who has been paid $900,000 as an industry lobbyist for over a year now; former governor Rendell, who ushered in the industry to begin with, urging his DEP to approve thousands of fracking permits in a wildly un-regulated situation without a single cumulative impact study in the state; and governor Corbett, who has been bankrolled by Chesapeake Energy billionaire CEO Aubrey McClendon since 1994 and who received over $1.2 million from the industry to help him win office. Corbett, whose job it once was to attract more waste to Pennsylvania’s landfills from other states, took office this past January 18th and has been a very good friend to the industry indeed. He even issued a directive that DEP inspectors could no longer issue Notices of Violation in the field to shale gas drillers without first getting political approval. A storm of protest forced the governor to back down on that, but he’s eagerly urging fracking in state forests, university campuses, and even prison grounds, pushing an extreme far-right agenda to help his industry friends with all due speed. He never pronounces the words “renewable” and “energy” together.
On September 7th in Philadelphia, from noon to 2 pm, on Arch Street between Broad and 13th Streets, the Shale Gas Outrage rally will feature speakers willing to stand up for clean air, water, earth and human health, and to tell it like it is. Philadelphia City Councilwoman Blondell Reynolds Brown and Councilman Curtis Jones; filmmaker Josh Fox; Al Appleton, former Commissioner of the New York Water and Sewer System, and Pittsburgh City Councilman Doug Shields are speaking, along with hilarious Philadelphia comedian Beth Nixon and spiritual singer Reverend Rhetta Morgan. Impacted residents will speak and The Band Called Fuse will lift spirits. Join us as we go toe to toe with Halliburton, the company responsible for the first secret chemical formula for high-volume fracking. Help us demand no further fracking permits be issued in PA; demand accountability from the industry and politicians; and demand the federal Halliburton Loophole be completely closed and EPA oversight on fracking fully restored. Be sane. Be just. Be there.

 

Leave a comment
from → Articles/Press Releases, News




Fracking Hurting Health Right Now
August 30, 2011



by Iris Marie Bloom


Below is the original transcript of an article by Iris Marie Bloom published in the University City Review.
August 10th  This morning, riding my bike down Christian Street, across the South Street Bridge and into West Philadelphia after an early morning meeting, I inhaled far more dirty exhaust than I wanted to. A city bus belched directly into my lungs and I held my breath as I passed the cloud.
It suddenly occurred to me that for me, as an asthmatic and a bike rider, as a city dweller, it would seem “as if” it’s a GREAT thing for city buses to switch to natural gas. But the only new sources of natural gas are those that can only be accessed by deep drilling into hard shale, called “fracking.”
If I didn’t personally know people being hurt by fracking right now up in Susquehanna County and Bradford County, in Washington and Greene Counties in southwestern PA, and elsewhere in the state and country – I could really imagine the seductive appeal. How much more appealing it must seem to those who have not been listening to hydrologists, biochemists and climate scientists make the case for a moratorium on fracking. I’ve been listening to those scientists, and I am completely persuaded that it’s urgent for us to halt fracking in Pennsylvania based on the cumulative impacts to our ecosystem and based on threats to public health for our own and future generations. But it’s not just scientists I’ve been listening to. It’s real people, ordinary people in the Susquehanna River watershed and the Ohio River watershed where high-volume horizontal hydraulic fracturing is already underway, who have had the greatest impact on me.
Carl and Judy Stiles of Sugar Run, in Bradford County, were told by a toxicologist to get out of their home last November after they’d been suffering severe abdominal pain, muscle tremors, dizziness, racing heart and other cardiac symptoms for months. They live not far from where the Susquehanna River began bubbling with gas after Chesapeake Energy began drilling and fracking nearby. The Stiles abandoned their home last November, but they continue to have symptoms. Arsenic and barium were confirmed in their blood tests at high levels; and radium 226 was also confirmed in their water. They have been told by one doctor to expect to get leukemia within two years. The last time I spoke with them, a few weeks ago, their daughter had been hospitalized with mysterious seizures.
As disturbing as all this is, one fact stood out as extraordinarily disturbing to me. Chesapeake Energy technicians came to the Stiles’ home last fall to take air samples from their shower, they told me. Long after the Stiles and their daughter stopped drinking their water, they had continued to take showers in their home with water they believe was contaminated by Chesapeake’s gas drilling and fracking operations nearby (vertical drilling happens before the fracking stage, and many contaminants including methane, arsenic, barium, and radioactive materials can be disturbed and released into the environment from the drilling stage before fracking even begins). Once their daughter almost passed out in the shower. But Chesapeake, the drilling company, has never told the Stiles what those air samples revealed about the fumes in the shower. So the Stiles, even while they urgently seek medical care, cannot tell doctors and toxicologists what they were exposed to.
Unfortunately it’s not just one company or one county being impacted. In Southwestern Pennsylvania, a family in which two members have experienced severe abdominal pain, sore throats, mouth ulcers and other symptoms for over a year after gas fracking operations began nearby, has also been forced to move out of their home. Their doctor told them the air contamination from gas drilling is even worse than the water contamination. The son has been so sick he’s had to miss the better part of a year of school. In their case, several animals have died and arsenic levels in their blood have spiked. It may be that arsine gas, which travels through the air as fumes emitted by water impacted by gas drilling, can cause some of the intense symptoms being experienced by this and other families. But they are not getting any help from either the gas drilling company or the state; in fact, their family has been split apart – made homeless – as the mother struggles to keep her job while taking care of her sick children.
The health impacts from gas drilling are so new, and the chemicals and other contaminants brought up by the drilling and fracking, compressor stations and condensate tanks, pipelines and frack pits, are so little understood, that the current wave of families whose health is being severely impacted by fracking in Pennsylvania are literally guinea pigs for a process being sold to the public as “clean.” Nothing could be farther from the truth. High-volume horizontal hydraulic fracturing for methane gas (fracking for short) is dirty, destructive and high-impact from start to finish. The EPA recently advised the families in Bradford County who were impacted by the Chesapeake Energy blowout there last April, that they must not even wash their dishes in their tap water, which now has multiple contaminants including, in at least one case, radioactive materials.
Turned on your tap recently and found it safe to wash your hands, take a shower, cook, wash dishes and even drink that water? Taken some deep breaths inside your home and felt safe doing so? Imagine what these impacted families who are being hurt right now are going through, and please take steps, if you are able, to educate yourself and to stand up to protect them – protecting Philly while you’re at it! T he Delaware River Basin Commission plans to issue final regulations to enable fracking in our watershed as early as this September, so all these impacts may soon show up directly upstream from Philadelphia. To protect our neighbors is to protect ourselves.
To learn more, please go to protectingourwaters.com and to demonstrate publicly, please attend the Shale Gas Outrage demonstration on September 7th in Philadelphia to protect air, water, earth and human health from dirty gas drilling. More information at www.shalegasoutrage.org.
 

Leave a comment
from → Uncategorized




Tar Sands Civil Disobedience:  381 Arrests at the White House and Counting til Sept. 3rd (Photos, Facts, Links)
August 29, 2011



by Iris Marie Bloom


“Defuse the biggest carbon bomb on the planet” — that’s the goal of hundreds of protestors, nearly 400 of whom have been arrested at the White House during the first week of the Tar Sands Action there.  Demonstrators, including anti-fracking activists Josh Fox, Steve Cleghorn, Sarah Henry and more, are pressing the Obama administration not to approve the XL Pipeline for tar sands oil extraction.  If not stopped this extraction will  massively contaminate water and air, harm indigenous communities and destroy a boreal forest the size of England.  Experts say it will irreversibly escalate global warming.
As of 2007, the Tar Sands was already using 1 billion cubic feet of natural gas per day to extract oil; that figure will have increased, and most of that gas used to get oil is fracked gas.  Fracked gas requires vast amounts of diesel and gasoline to be burned by trucks, generators, compressors and heavy equipment in fracking, and so the cycle of insanity escalates.
The excellent website for the Tar Sands Action is here.
Rain Forest Action Network’s “Understory” website featuring Gasland Director Josh Fox on Tar Sands, and Tar Sands Facts, is here.
Short youtube video, Tar Sands Issues overview:  Canadian oil extraction, beginning with a statement by President Obama.
Huffington Post Coverage is here.
Fast facts from “Understory,” the Rainforest Action Network site:

Tar Sands Facts
Tar Sands via Pete Williamson/Creative Commons

The Alberta tar sands is the biggest industrial development project, the biggest capital investment project, and the biggest energy project in the world.
The tar sands project is irreversibly destroying an area of ancient Boreal Forest the size of England.
The tar sands uses more water than a city of two million people.
The tar sands produces 36 million tons of carbon dioxide per day. It emits the same amount of greenhouse gas emissions as 1.3 million cars.
In 2007, the tar sands used approx. 1 billion feet of natural gas per day, much of which was obtained through fracking.
Waster from the tar sands is stored in toxic ponds that are so big they can be seen from space. These toxic lakes leak 11 million liters of contaminated water every day into groundwater and drinking water for local communities, including Indigenous First Nations communities of Canada.
The proposed Keystone XL pipeline would pipe tar sands oil from Alberta, Canada to the Gulf of Mexico.

You can help stop the Keystone XL pipeline.
 

1 Comment
from → Uncategorized




(Press Release) Josh Fox, Al Appleton to Speak at Shale Gas Outrage Rally Sept. 7th in Philly
August 26, 2011



by Sara Cederberg


Thursday August 25, 2011
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Contact: Iris Marie Bloom, Director, Protecting Our Waters
215-840-6489, protectingourwaters@gmail.com
Wes Gillingham, Program Director, Catskill Mountainkeeper
845-901-1029, wes@catskillmountainkeeper.org
JOSH FOX AND AL APPLETON TO SPEAK AT SHALE GAS OUTRAGE RALLY TO “STOP DIRTY DRILLING,”
 PROTECT AIR, WATER, HEALTH
WHO: Protecting Our Waters & over forty local, regional and national endorsing
organizations
WHAT: Shale Gas Outrage Rally and March
WHEN: Wednesday, Sept. 7, noon-2pm (March 2 – 3pm)
WHERE: Arch St. between 13th and Broad, Philadelphia PA 19107
Philadelphia, PA – As the U.S. Energy Information Administration slashes its estimate of recoverable Marcellus Shale gas by 80%, activists are reinforcing their call for shale gas drilling to be halted. “Just as the industry has not been telling the truth about recoverable gas, so they have not been telling the truth about what high-volume hydrofracking does to air, water, earth and human health,” said Francesca LoBasso, Communications Director for Protecting Our Waters, the Philadelphia-based advocacy group initiating the Shale Gas Outrage events.
Filmmaker Josh Fox, creator of the documentary Gasland, and Al Appleton, an international water systems expert, will be among the speakers at the Shale Gas Outrage rally and march in Philadelphia on Sept. 7.
Mr. Fox’s film was among the first to document major problems associated with high-volume slickwater hydraulic fracturing with directional drilling, popularly called “fracking.” The controversial new combination of techniques is called “unconventional” by the industry and is less than five years old in Pennsylvania. It has caused air and water contamination, health problems, and widespread methane migration.
“Not only did Josh make a great informative film, but he has become an expert on what has happened to communities across the world when the gas industry marches in.  He really understands the big picture,” said an outspoken proponent for protecting the Delaware River, actor Mark Ruffalo.
Al Appleton, a Senior Advisor at The Cooper Union Institute for Sustainable Design, is an expert on the real and potential impacts of fracking. Mr. Appleton’s experience with water systems for major cities includes positions as former Commissioner of the New York City Department of Environmental Protection (DEP) and Director of the New York City Water and Sewer system.
“Mr. Appleton’s professional past and experience, coupled with his longstanding dedication to the issue, positions him as a unique expert in the field,” said Wes Gillingham, Program Director of Catskill Mountainkeeper, an environmental group that helped sound the alarm on fracking in the region beginning over three years ago. “He understands the absurdity of fracking for gas in the Delaware River Basin – an act which would threaten the drinking water of over 15 million people, including residents of Philadelphia, Princeton, Camden and New York City.”
In a letter to the New York City Council’s Committee on Environmental Protection, Mr. Appleton wrote, “[the fracking process is] an enormous threat to the well-being not only of the city but of the state of New York.”
Protecting Our Waters, a Philadelphia-based grassroots advocacy group focusing on unconventional gas drilling and other threats to drinking water, environment and public health, initiated the September 7th protest to protect people throughout the Marcellus Shale region; to push for a Pennsylvania statewide moratorium and to intensify the demand for a continued moratorium in the Delaware River Basin.
An Interfaith Blessing of the Waters will be held after the rally and march at Penn Treaty Park on the Delaware River from 5:30 – 7 pm.
Over forty organizations has endorsed the event; all are listed at shalegasoutrage.org, complete with a link for each organization. Rally and other program updates are also posted at shalegasoutrage.org.
For issues-based information, please visit protectingourwaters.com and allies.
###
 

Leave a comment
from → Articles/Press Releases, Events




Geologists Slash Estimate of Shale Gas by Nearly 80%
August 25, 2011



by Iris Marie Bloom


It’s an earthquake of a different sort.  Based on a data from the U.S. Geological Survey, the United States government, via its Energy Information Administration, is cutting its estimate of natural gas recoverable from the Marcellus Shale by nearly 80%.
Today’s New York Times story by Ian Urbina is here.  Excerpts:
The shale formation has about 84 trillion cubic feet of undiscovered, technically recoverable natural gas, according to the report from the United States Geological Survey. This is drastically lower than the 410 trillion cubic feet that was published earlier this year by the federal Energy Information Administration.
As a result, the Energy Information Administration, which is responsible for quantifying oil and gas supplies, has said it will slash its official estimate for the Marcellus Shale by nearly 80 percent, a move that is likely to generate new questions about how the agency calculates its estimates and why it was so far off in its projections.
Read the full New York Times story here.
Bloomberg reported it on Wednesday August 24th here.  Excerpts:
The United States will slash its estimate of undiscovered Marcellus Shale natural gas by nearly 80 percent after an updated assessment by government geologists.  The formation, which stretches from New York to Tennessee, contains about 84 trillion feet of gas, the USGS said on Tuesday in its first update in nine years.  That supersedes an Energy Department projection of 410 trillion cubic feet, said Philip Budzik, an operations research analyst with the Energy Information Administration.
“We consider the USGS to be the experts in this matter,” Budzik said.  ”They’re geologists, we’re not.  We’re going to be taking this number and using it in our model.”
This month, Range Resources Corp., Cabot Oil & Gas Corp. and Goodrich Petroleum Corp. were subpoenaed by New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman over whether they accurately represented the profitability of their natural-gas wells in the region, according to a person familiar with the matter.  The subpoenas, sent Aug. 8, requested documents on formulas used to project how long the wells can produce gas without additional drilling using hydraulic fracturing, or fracking.
The full Bloomsberg story is here.
With widespread methane migration, toxic spills every day, sick people, and dead animals in shale country, the industry’s thick wall of denial has included no honesty even about the recoverable gas estimates.  This is the industry the state of Pennsylvania has shown enormous trust towards.  While rural people report streams gone dry and lowered water tables, nowhere in the state has a single cumulative impact study been done.  It’s taken years for our federal government to even begin paying attention to the truth about recoverable gas.  Wonder what else the industry hasn’t been telling us, because officials have been too busy doling out exemptions and otherwise showing this industry so much love, rather than asking hard questions and calling a halt?


 

Leave a comment
from → News




Did Fracking Cause the Virginia Earthquake?  Evidence from West Virginia, Texas and Arkansas
August 24, 2011



by Iris Marie Bloom


Yesterday’s earthquake, large enough to crack the Washington Monument, was felt from North Carolina to Toronto, from New Jersey to Ohio, and beyond — as I learned online in the first twelve minutes after I first felt the floorboards of my kitchen moving under my feet. Many good minds are wondering, with a reasonable base of evidence, whether fracking in West Virginia contributed to or caused the quake.
One blogger, Stuart Bramhall, posted research into this question, “Did Fracking Cause the Virginia Earthquake?” here.  A few excerpts:
Earthquakes in the nation’s capitol are as rare as hen’s teeth. The epicenter of Tuesday’s quake was in Mineral, Virginia, which is located on three very quiet fault lines. The occurrence of yet another freak earthquake in an unusual location is leading many anti-fracking activists (including me – they have just started fracking in Stratford, which is 40 minutes from New Plymouth) to wonder whether “fracking” in nearby West Virginia may be responsible.
Coincidentally, nearby Braxton County, West Virginia experienced eight earthquakes in 2010, and earthquakes lessened after authorities required fracking operators to cut back on the pressure and rate of fracking fluid injection into deep rock layers:
According to geologists, it isn’t the fracking itself that is linked to earthquakes, but the re-injection of waste salt water (as much as 3 million gallons per well) deep into rock beds.
Braxton County West Virginia (160 miles from Mineral) has experienced a rash of freak earthquakes (eight in 2010) since fracking operations started there several years ago. According to geologists fracking also caused an outbreak of thousands of minor earthquakes in Arkansas (as many as two dozen in a single day). It’s also linked to freak earthquakes in Texas, western New York, Oklahoma, and Blackpool, England (which had never recorded an earthquake before).
I think it’s really hard to deny there’s a connection when the frequency of Arkansas earthquakes dropped by two-thirds when the Arkansas Oil and Gas Commission banned fracking (see http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/04/21/fracking-shutdown-earthquakes-arkansas_n_851930.html). Note that they didn’t stop entirely, which suggests that fault disruption may persist even after fracking stops.
Braxton County West Virginia also experienced a marked reduction in their quakes after the West Virginia Oil and Gas Commission forced fracking companies to cut back on the pressure and rate of salt water injection into the bedrock (see http://www.hurherald.com/cgi-bin/db_scripts/articles?Action=user_view&db=hurheral_articles&id=43334).
According to a joint study by Southern Methodist University and University of Texas-Austin, earthquakes started in the Dallas/Fort Worth region after a fracking disposal well there began operating in 2008 and stopped when it was closed in 2009 (seehttp://www.watershedsentinel.ca/content/does-gas-fracking-cause-earthquakes).
Blackpool, England banned fracking immediately, without waiting to see if more earthquakes would occur.
You can read the full post here:  http://stuartbramhall.aegauthorblogs.com/2011/08/23/did-fracking-cause-the-virginia-earthquake/
 

Leave a comment
from → News




(Press Release) Shale Gas Outrage Action to Protect Air, Water, Earth & Human Health
August 15, 2011



by Sara Cederberg


FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Contact:
Karen Feridun, Founder, Berks Gas Truth
610-678-7726  karen.feridun@gmail.com
Iris Marie Bloom, Founder and Director, Protecting Our Waters
(215) 840-6489  protectingourwaters@gmail.com
SEPT. 7TH “SHALE GAS OUTRAGE” RALLY TO PROTECT AIR, WATER, EARTH AND HUMAN HEALTH
To Be Held Outside Convention Center While Fracking Industry Meets Inside
Mayor Nutter Declines to Speak at Industry Convention
On September 7th, residents of Pennsylvania and surrounding states will rally at the Convention Center in Philadelphia to put out the message that the region’s people “will not tolerate contamination of our air, water and earth by dirty gas drilling,” according to rally organizers.  Over forty organizations locally, regionally and nationally have endorsed the rally, including unions, religious organizations, civic groups and environmental organizations including Delaware Riverkeeper Network, Food & Water Watch, Clean Water Action, Physicians for Social Responsibility, and PennEnvironment.
Speakers will include Josh Fox, director of the Oscar-nominated film Gasland; Al Appleton, international water systems expert; elected officials, faith-based leaders and people impacted by shale gas drilling.  Protecting Our Waters, a grassroots advocacy group based in Philadelphia, initiated the Sept. 7th rally, march, Interfaith Blessing of the Waters, and conference.  Protecting Our Waters aims to help protect Philadelphia’s drinking water; the Delaware River Basin, the Susquehanna and Ohio River Basins of Pennsylvania, and the region, from fracking and other threats.
The rally targets high-volume hydraulic fracturing with horizontal drilling for methane gas; the technology used is called “fracking” for short.
When:  “Shale Gas Outrage” Rally to Stop Dirty Drilling Wednesday September 7th, 12 – 2pm.  March 2pm  - 3pm
Where: Arch Street between Broad and 13th Streets, Philadelphia, PA 19107
Followed by:  Interfaith “Blessing of the Waters” at Penn Treaty Park, 5:30 – 7pm, by the Delaware River
September 8th: “Freedom from Fracking: Building Strategies Together” conference, 8:30 am – 5 pm
Although invited, Philadelphia Mayor Michael Nutter has declined to speak at the Marcellus Shale Coalition gas drilling industry convention, to be held September 7th and 8th, dubbed “Shale Gas Insight,” by the industry.  Protecting Our Waters Associate Director Alex Allen said, “We are extremely happy with Mayor Nutter’s decision to distance himself from the shale gas drilling industry convention, and applaud his continued commitment to making Philadelphia one of the nation’s greenest cities.”
Shale gas drilling involves “fracking,” the controversial technique using high volumes of toxic chemicals and fresh water to drill deep into shale layers a mile and more underground, explosively fracturing the rock to release methane.  Methane gas, a potent contributor to global warming, rushes back to the surface — sometimes uncontrollably, as several major blowouts have shown — along with “flowback” fluid which is often radioactive, always many times saltier than the ocean, and carries naturally occurring poisons like arsenic, barium; hydrocarbons like benzene and toluene; as well as the original toxic chemicals from the fracking fluid.  These toxins find their way through multiple pathways into water supplies, air, and the food chain.
“Fracking is hurting human health right now in Pennsylvania,” said Iris Marie Bloom, Protecting Our Waters’ founder and director.  ”This is not abstract.  Clean air, water and earth are absolute requirements for human life and for all life.  We must institute a moratorium — not one more shale gas drilling permit — and stop making people sick in Pennsylvania.  Our people are not guinea pigs.”
Karen Feridun, founder of GasTruth Berks County, confronted the argument that gas drilling is good for jobs.  ”In 2010, Pennsylvania ranked third in the nation in job growth. If you subtract all the Marcellus Shale jobs, Pennsylvania still ranked third in the nation in job growth. All of the hype about job creation is baseless,” she said.  The Keystone Research Center said in June that the Marcellus Shale Coalition (industry lobbying and PR group) claim to have created 48,000 jobs was exaggerated and that the real number is in the range of 10,000 jobs.
For more information about Shale Gas Outrage: http://shalegasoutrage.org/
For more news and information: Protecting Our Waters’ blog: http://protectingourwaters.wordpress.com/
 

1 Comment
from → Articles/Press Releases, Events




Democracy For America delivers 82,000 signatures to Congress
August 14, 2011



by Aaron Birk


On August 13, lawmakers in the House and Senate received a 350 page petition from citizens across the country in support of the “FRAC ACT,” (Fracking Responsibility and Awareness of Chemicals Act) a bill sponsored by Senator Robert Casey (D, PA) which would restore the gas industry’s accountability to the Safe Drinking Water Act.  In 2005 the industry was granted exemptions from over a dozen major federal laws, including the Safe Drinking Water Act, the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Superfund Law, The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, and the Community Right to Know Law.  This package of controversial exemptions was buried deep in an energy bill and forced through Congress.  It came to be known as “The Halliburton Loophole.”
The Halliburton Loophole has had dire consequences for the environment and the health of the American peope.  It has given the gas industry carte blanche to contaminate our air and water without regulation or oversight.  The FRAC Act, if passed, would only restore accountability to the Safe Drinking Water Act, leaving the other exemptions intact.
To learn about the Haliburton Loophole in greater detail visit ProPublica.
 

Leave a comment
from → Uncategorized



« Older Entries




 

Stay Informed!  Protecting Our Waters Blog subscription

Enter your email address to subscribe to Protecting Our Water's blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 156 other followers








Share this blog with the people you care about 




Follow Us for the Latest!
@RisingTideNA Thanks for the support! See you Wednesday as we stand together! #ShaleGasOutrage 6 hours ago
@paigewolf See you at #ShaleGasOutrage and thanks for the support! 7 hours ago
RT @ReschElectrical: Blue Jersey:: FREE Rides from NJ to Philly's Shale Gas Outrage ... http://t.co/e2L6Axt 7 hours ago

Follow @POW_No_Fracking
Chip in to safeguard clean water in Philadelphia and Pennsylvania. 
We spend hundreds of hours a week fighting to protect clean water in Philadelphia, the Delaware River, and all of Pennsylvania. Your small dollars will help us beat back the super-rich gas industry. Please support us if you believe in our activities!
Send a Postcard to Gov. Corbett 

Download the Fracksylvania Postcard and send it to: 


Gov. Tom Corbett 
225 Main Capitol Building 
Harrisburg, PA 17120

Protecting Our Waters (POW) is: A Philadelphia-based grassroots alliance committed to protecting the Delaware River Basin, the state of Pennsylvania, and our region from unconventional gas drilling and other threats to our drinking water, environment, and public health. read more...
Search our blog!  What are you looking for?




Allies

American Rivers
Chesapeake Bay Foundation
Clean Water Action
Damascus Citizens
Delaware Riverkeeper Network
Earthjustice
First Amendment Network
PA Campaign For Clean Water
PennEnvironment
Save Our State Forests in Pennsylvania


Blogroll

francescalobasso


Get educated

Bluedaze: Drilling Reform for Texas
Earthworks Oil & Gas Accountability Project
Fractracker
Keep Tap Water Safe
Propublica
Shaleshock
Splashdown!
The Endocrine Disruption Exchange


  
Blog at WordPress.com.
Theme: Vigilance by The Theme Foundry. 














