 Follow The Money


Follow The Money
"It has to start somewhere. It has to start sometime. What better place than here? What better time than now?"

  

 


 




Microsoft “intentionally designed software for phones to track customers without their consent”
				•September 6, 2011  • Leave a Comment 

http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2032407/Microsoft-intentionally-designed-software-phones-track-customers-consent.html
Microsoft allegedly tracks the location of its mobile customers even after users request that tracking software be turned off, according to a new lawsuit.
The proposed class action, filed in a Seattle federal court on Wednesday, says Microsoft intentionally designed camera software on the Windows Phone 7 operating system to ignore customer requests that they not be tracked.
A Microsoft representative could not immediately be reached for comment.
The lawsuit comes after concerns surfaced earlier this year that Apple’s iPhones collected location data and stored it for up to a year, even when location software was supposedly turned off. Apple issued a patch to fix the problem.
However, the revelation prompted renewed scrutiny of the nexus between location and privacy.
At a hearing in May, U.S. lawmakers accused the tech industry of exploiting location data for marketing purposes — a potentially multibillion-dollar industry — without getting proper consent from millions of Americans.
The lawsuit against Microsoft cites a letter the company sent to Congress, in which Microsoft said it only collects geolocation data with the express consent of the user.
‘Microsoft’s representations to Congress were false,’ the lawsuit says.
The litigation, brought on behalf of a Windows Phone 7 user, claims Microsoft transmits data — including approximate latitude and longitude coordinates of the user’s device — while the camera application is activated.
It seeks an injunction and punitive damages, among other remedies.
The case in U.S. District Court, Western District of Washington is Rebecca Cousineau, individually on her own behalf and on behalf of all others similarly situated v. Microsoft Corp., 11-cv-1438.
————
dont be shocked..standard practice for multinationals like this..we have no privacy..we have no secrets..
401

Posted in USA, World News 




Iran says nuclear-power plant “operational”
				•September 6, 2011  • Leave a Comment 

http://english.aljazeera.net/news/middleeast/2011/09/201194114210296626.html
Iran’s first nuclear-power plant has started adding electricity to the national grid, finally coming on stream after years of delays, according to local media.
The connection of the Bushehr plant to the national grid was originally scheduled for the end of 2010.
“Last night at 11:29pm [18:59 GMT], the Bushehr power plant was connected with 60 megawatts to the national grid,” Hamid Khadem Qaemi, a spokesman for the Atomic Energy Organisation, told Al-Alam television on Sunday.
He told Iran’s Arabic language TV station that the plant would be officially inaugurated on September 12, by which time it would be operating at 40 per cent capacity.
Mohammad Ahmadian, the deputy atomic chief in charge of power plants, told state television the plant was expected to reach full capacity in November.
“But it is very important for us to take these final steps with utmost safety concerns in mind. We want to have guaranteed functional operation,” Ahmadian said.
Russia - which built the plant - has pinned the blame for the delays on Iran, saying its engineers have been forced to work with outdated parts. The latest delay in March was blamed on wear and tear at the plant.
Started by Germany’s Siemens in the 1970s before Iran’s Islamic revolution, the project was later taken over by Russian engineers.
————-
well i must admit i was one who said this would never connect to the grid..well its defied all of us and has been connected and is heading to full production..for now..
401

Posted in Iran, Israel, Russia, USA, World News 



Stieg Larsson – Millenium Series books/movies
				•September 6, 2011  • Leave a Comment 






http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stieg_Larsson
Karl Stig-Erland Larsson /kɑɭ sti:g ‘ɛɭɑnd ‘lɑʂʊn/ (15 August 1954 – 9 November 2004), who wrote professionally as Stieg Larsson, was a Swedish journalist and writer, born in Skelleftehamn outside Skellefteå. He is best known for writing the “Millennium series” of crime novels, which were published posthumously. Larsson lived and worked much of his life in Stockholm.
He was the second best-selling author in the world in 2008, behind Khaled Hosseini. By March 2010, his “Millennium series” had sold 27 million copies in more than 40 countries.
————
there is a pattern here amongst the many languages and countries the movies and books have been shown in..can you see it?  
401

Posted in Music, Sport & Entertainment, Sweden, World News 



Is this the UN’s “Abu Ghraib moment” in Haiti?
				•September 6, 2011  • Leave a Comment 

http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/cifamerica/2011/sep/03/minustah-un-haiti-abuse
The video is profoundly disturbing. It shows four men, identified as Uruguayan troops from the UN mission in Haiti (Minustah), seemingly in the act of raping an 18-year-old Haitian youth. Two have the victim pinned down on a mattress, with his hands twisted high up his back so that he cannot move. Perhaps the most unnerving part of the video is the constant chorus of laughter from the alleged perpetrators; to them, apparently, it’s just a drunken party.
ABC News reports that a Uruguayan navy lieutenant, Nicolas Casariego, has confirmed the authenticity of the video. A medical certificate filed with the court in Port Salut, a southern coastal town where the incident took place, says that the victim was beaten and had injuries consistent with a sexual assault.
The incident is likely to pour more gasoline on the fire of resentment that Haitians have for the UN troops who have occupied their country for more than seven years. There has been a dire pattern of abuses: in December 2007, more than 100 UN soldiers from Sri Lanka were deported under charges of sexual abuse of under-age girls. In 2005, UN troops went on the rampage in Cité Soleil, one of the poorest areas in Port-au-Prince, killing as many as 23 people, including children, according to witnesses. After the raid, the humanitarian group Doctors Without Borders reported: “On that day, we treated 27 people for gunshot wounds. Of them, around 20 were women under the age of 18.”
WikiLeaks cables released in the last week reveal that the Timothy Carney, representing the United States government as the top-ranking diplomat in Haiti in 2006, warned that such raids would “inevitably cause unintended civilian casualties given the crowded conditions and flimsy construction of tightly packed housing in Cité Soleil”. But Washington – showing its lack of respect for human life in Haiti – offered no objections to further raids, which continued into 2006.
And make no mistake about it: the UN occupation of Haiti is really a US occupation – it is no more a multilateral force than George W Bush’s “coalition of the willing” that invaded Iraq. And it is hardly more legitimate, either: it was sent there in 2004 after a US-led effort toppled Haiti’s democratically elected government. Far from providing security for Haitians in the aftermath of the coup, Minustah stood by while thousands of Haitians who had supported the elected government were killed, and officials of the constitutional government jailed. Recent WikiLeaks cables also confirm that the US government sees Minustah as an instrument of its policy there.
This latest incident could shed some light on the nature of its mission, just as the photos from Abu Ghraib made plain for most of the world the brutality of the US occupation of Iraq. Images cannot be so easily dismissed or buried as words. And the images from this video are symbolic of what the “international community” has been doing to Haiti since the country won its independence from France in the world’s first successful slave-led revolution.
There is no legitimate reason for a military mission of the United Nations in Haiti. The country has no civil war, and is not the subject of a peace-keeping or post-conflict agreement. And the fact that UN troops are immune from prosecution or legal action in Haiti encourages abuses. The occupying troops don’t speak the language either, which severely limits their capacity for any positive security role; can you imagine how effective a police force in Washington, DC would be if it spoke only Japanese?
To make things even worse, it is now virtually certain that Minustah brought the cholera bacteria to Haiti that has killed more than 6,000 Haitians and infected more than 400,000 in the last 10 months. This was an act of gross negligence: there should have been supervision to make sure that fecal waste from UN troops was not dumped into the water supply, given the risks of such a deadly contamination and the known incapacity of Haiti’s water, sanitation and public health system.
How long can Minustah be allowed to continue to occupy and abuse Haiti?
————
this is always the dilemna..who is watching the watchers?..who is guarding against the guards?
if you cant trust the esteemed UN..then who do you trust?..this is not abu ghraib..thats hype..but it is significant..
401

Posted in Haiti, Uruguay, USA, World News 



Russia agrees to $65B rail & tunnel project linking Siberia and Alaska
				•September 6, 2011  • Leave a Comment 


http://inhabitat.com/russia-green-lights-65-billion-siberia-alaska-rail-and-tunnel-to-bridge-the-bering-strait/

In what could certainly be one of the boldest infrastructure developments ever announced, the Russian Government has given the go-ahead to build a transcontinental railway linking Siberia with North America. The massive undertaking would traverse the Bering Strait with the world’s longest tunnel – a project twice the length of the Chunnel between England and France. The $65 billion project aims to feed North America with raw goods from the Siberian interior and beyond, but it could also provide a key link to developing a robust renewable energy transmission corridor that feeds wind and tidal power across vast distances while linking a railway network across 3/4 of the Northern Hemisphere.

The idea is actually not very new — Tsar Nicholas II dreamed of the railway and tunnel in 1905. The on-again off-again scheme would provide a vital economic resource for both Asia and Americas by providing an efficient link of not only goods and passengers but also fiber optic cables and transmission lines. The key is a 65-mile-long tunnel that would pass underneath the Big Diomede and Little Diomede islands in the Bering Strait. The tunnel, at a projected cost of $10-12 billion, is to be built in three sections and would cross the International Date Line, reconnecting the two land masses.
————
now this is a big project..connecting russia/siberia with alaska/usa..via rail and a tunnel under the bering strait..hooking up with afghanistan as well i would presume via the new silk road..
401



Posted in Russia, Siberia, USA 



Looking for the deepest laws of the universe
				•September 6, 2011  • Leave a Comment 

http://english.aljazeera.net/indepth/features/2011/08/201182364618198406.html
Geneva – Most of us live in a visceral world of traffic jams, human or automotive, and the immediacy of dealing with our own bodies.
Even the things that seem so removed from most – tanks firing into Syrian crowds, the weight of millions of brittle bodies starving somewhere in the Somali desert or the fear of nuclear contamination in Japan – pack a physical punch.
So what to make of laboratories where physicists celebrate having successfully weighed antimatter or feel the frustration of having yet to prove the existence of a “God particle”?  Given that we are dealing with the aftermath of the nuclear disaster in Fukushima, where the struggle to contain the radiation from the Daiichi plant damaged in the March 11 earthquake and tsunami continues, what sort of consequences might such research – as removed as it might seem from the reality of quotidian life – have down the line?
And what happens when their great machines, filled with some sort of promise, break down?
Al Jazeera visited The European Organisation for Nuclear Research (or Organisation Européenne pour la Recherche Nucléaire – formerly known as Conseil Européen pour la Recherche Nucléaire), one of the most whiz-bang scientific research institutes in the world, for interviews with three of the centre’s scientists to address those very questions.
Among the work being done at CERN are experiments in searching for the Higgs particle – the aforementioned “God particle” – which is thought to bestow mass to other particles as well as one looking to solve the mystery of antimatter in the universe.
Continue here: http://english.aljazeera.net/indepth/features/2011/08/201182364618198406.html
———–
always the same questions.. why are we here and how did we get here?  
401

Posted in Europe, France, Switzerland, World News 



The End of Eden
				•September 5, 2011  • 14 Comments 

http://www.grahamphillips.net/eden/eden_1.htm#comet
3500 years ago strange things suddenly began to happen throughout the world – bizarre, simultaneous events that have never been explained.
The 2000-year-old culture that built Stonehenge came to an abrupt end – as if it had simply disappeared.
After living in relative peace for centuries, civilizations across the earth – in Asia, Europe, Africa, and the Americas – were simultaneously overwhelmed by an epidemic of mass violence.  Neighbor fought neighbor and entire cultures were destroyed.
Around the globe humanity suddenly embraced new gods, and new religious sects independently appeared.
All over the world – in China, India, Asia, and the Middle East – priests inscribed an almost identical symbol on the walls of temples, palaces and tombs.  The image of an awesome manifestation that appeared in the skies.
What on earth was happening around 1500 BC?
Continue here: http://www.grahamphillips.net/eden/eden_1.htm
————
thanks to a very good friend for linking me to this..
check it out..things fall into place..questions get answered..the disc..the rays..the lost history..the destroyer?
401

Posted in World News 



Evidence indicates global warming is caused by cosmic rays and the sun — not humans
				•September 5, 2011  • 13 Comments 

http://opinion.financialpost.com/2011/08/26/lawrence-solomon-science-now-settled/
The science is now all-but-settled on global warming, convincing new evidence demonstrates, but Al Gore, the IPCC and other global warming doomsayers won’t be celebrating. The new findings point to cosmic rays and the sun — not human activities — as the dominant controller of climate on Earth.
The research, published with little fanfare this week in the prestigious journal Nature, comes from über-prestigious CERN, the European Organization for Nuclear Research, one of the world’s largest centres for scientific research involving 60 countries and 8,000 scientists at more than 600 universities and national laboratories. CERN is the organization that invented the World Wide Web, that built the multi-billion dollar Large Hadron Collider, and that has now built a pristinely clean stainless steel chamber that precisely recreated the Earth’s atmosphere.
In this chamber, 63 CERN scientists from 17 European and American institutes have done what global warming doomsayers said could never be done — demonstrate that cosmic rays promote the formation of molecules that in Earth’s atmosphere can grow and seed clouds, the cloudier and thus cooler it will be. Because the sun’s magnetic field controls how many cosmic rays reach Earth’s atmosphere (the stronger the sun’s magnetic field, the more it shields Earth from incoming cosmic rays from space), the sun determines the temperature on Earth.
The hypothesis that cosmic rays and the sun hold the key to the global warming debate has been Enemy No. 1 to the global warming establishment ever since it was first proposed by two scientists from the Danish Space Research Institute, at a 1996 scientific conference in the U.K. Within one day, the chairman of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, Bert Bolin, denounced the theory, saying, “I find the move from this pair scientifically extremely naive and irresponsible.” He then set about discrediting the theory, any journalist that gave the theory cre dence, and most of all the Danes presenting the theory — they soon found themselves vilified, marginalized and starved of funding, despite their impeccable scientific credentials.
The mobilization to rally the press against the Danes worked brilliantly, with one notable exception. Nigel Calder, a former editor of The New Scientist who attended that 1996 conference, would not be cowed. Himself a physicist, Mr. Calder became convinced of the merits of the argument and a year later, following a lecture he gave at a CERN conference, so too did Jasper Kirkby, a CERN scientist in attendance. Mr. Kirkby then convinced the CERN bureaucracy of the theory’s importance and developed a plan to create a cloud chamber — he called it CLOUD, for “Cosmics Leaving OUtdoor Droplets.”
But Mr. Kirkby made the same tactical error that the Danes had — not realizing how politicized the global warming issue was, he candidly shared his views with the scientific community.
“The theory will probably be able to account for somewhere between a half and the whole of the increase in the Earth’s temperature that we have seen in the last century,” Mr. Kirkby told the scientific press in 1998, explaining that global warming may be part of a natural cycle in the Earth’s temperature.
The global warming establishment sprang into action, pressured the Western governments that control CERN, and almost immediately succeeded in suspending CLOUD. It took Mr. Kirkby almost a decade of negotiation with his superiors, and who knows how many compromises and unspoken commitments, to convince the CERN bureaucracy to allow the project to proceed. And years more to create the cloud chamber and convincingly validate the Danes’ groundbreaking theory.
Yet this spectacular success will be largely unrecognized by the general public for years — this column will be the first that most readers have heard of it — because CERN remains too afraid of offending its government masters to admit its success. Weeks ago, CERN formerly decided to muzzle Mr. Kirby and other members of his team to avoid “the highly political arena of the climate change debate,” telling them “to present the results clearly but not interpret them” and to downplay the results by “mak[ing] clear that cosmic radiation is only one of many parameters.” The CERN study and press release is written in bureaucratese and the version of Mr. Kirkby’s study that appears in the print edition of Nature censored the most eye-popping graph — only those who know where to look in an online supplement will see the striking potency of cosmic rays in creating the conditions for seeding clouds.
CERN, and the Danes, have in all likelihood found the path to the Holy Grail of climate science. But the religion of climate science won’t yet permit a celebration of the find.
————
the science IS settled..global warming..if detected..is caused by the sun..not us..as always..watch them try and hide this and debunk it..
401

Posted in Climate Change, Denmark, World News 



US infected more Guatemalans than previously thought
				•September 5, 2011  • 4 Comments 

http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-latin-america-14751441
The extent of US medical experiments in Guatemala on STDs during the 1940s is greater than previously thought, health authorities have told the BBC.
The number of infected people could be as high as 2,500, says the president of the Medical Association of Guatemala.
According to a US report released on Monday, 1,300 Guatemalans were infected without their knowledge to study the effects of penicillin.
US scientists knew they were violating ethical rules, the report found.
There is also enough evidence to conclude there was collaboration between US and Guatemalan authorities at the time of the tests, Carlos Mejia, a member of the commission established by the Guatemalan government to investigate the experiments, told BBC Mundo.
At least nine Guatemalan doctors were involved in these experiments, he said.
Eight of them have already died, but authorities still do not know the whereabouts of a ninth, who would now be over 90 years old, he added.
The commission’s final report is due in October.
The US Presidential Commission for the Study of Bioethical Issues had said some 5,500 Guatemalans were involved in all the research that took place between 1946 and 1948, with a view to applying the results on US troops stationed around the world.
Of these, some 1,300 prisoners, psychiatric patients and sex workers were deliberately infected with syphilis, gonorrhoea or another sexually transmitted disease, chancroid.
Concentrations of bacteria were injected into the eyes, the central nervous system and male genitals. Mr Mejia says this was behaviour very similar to that of the scientists in Nazi Germany.
“It took place in the context in which they [the United States] were judging the German doctors who had been experimenting with typhus and malaria on prisoners of war. The Nazis used Poles, Russians and Jews, while the Americans made almost the same use of Guatemalans,” he says.
Of the group of 1,300, only about 700 received some sort of treatment.
According to documents the commission had studied, at least 83 of the 5,500 subjects had died by the end of 1953.
The commission was unable to say whether any of those deaths were caused directly or indirectly by the deliberate infections.
———–
and i wouldnt believe those figures either..so whats different?..nazis testing diseases out on poles and jews?..or the usa doing what they did to guatemalans?
401

Posted in Guatemala, USA 



“US raids kill al-Qaeda fighters” in Yemen..how do they know they are al Qaeda?
				•September 5, 2011  • 6 Comments 

http://english.aljazeera.net/news/middleeast/2011/09/201191125737612197.html
Sources tell Al Jazeera that at least 20 al-Qaeda suspects have been killed in US air attacks and clashes with Yemeni soldiers in the southern province of Abyan.
A military official confirmed on Thursday the deaths of the al-Qaeda-linked fighters, but refused to comment on whether there was any US involvement.
The air raids freed a Yemeni military unit besieged in Abyan for several weeks by al-Qaeda groups.
A medical official said four Yemeni military officers were also killed in clashes on Wednesday and Thursday.
The official said Yemeni troops had pushed back al-Qaeda groups  from an area about 8km outside the southern city of Zinjibar.
The officials spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not allowed to speak to the press.
Yemen has repeatedly said its forces are making gains against groups who are suspected of ties to al Qaeda and have taken over two large cities in Abyan, a flashpoint province.
But the army has yet to regain control since the region was plunged into almost daily violence some months ago, bloodshed that has driven away some 90,000 residents.
President Ali Abdullah Saleh’s government has lost control of some parts of the south amid rising political turmoil, as mass protests demanding an end to his 33-year rule.
The US and neighbouring oil giant Saudi Arabia fear that spreading chaos in Yemen is giving the branch of al-Qaeda entrenched there more room to operate.
Saleh’s opponents accuse his government of exaggerating the al-Qaeda threat in Yemen and even encouraging armed groups in order to pressure Riyadh and Washington to back his continued rule.
Saleh is still recovering in Saudi Arabia from severe wounds during a June bomb attack but has vowed to return to Yemen, a course of action Washington has advised him not to pursue.
————-
everyone is al qaeda..if you want an excuse to attack..call them al qaeda..i mean..do these guys have ID that says al qaeda..or do they just guess?
401

Posted in Africa, Middle East, USA, Yemen 



The U.N Trap pt.1/14
				•September 5, 2011  • 3 Comments 

————
a 14 part expose from an australian perspective..notes hawke and gillard are both fabian socialists and how our constitution has been usurped..
401

Posted in Australia, Climate Change, World News 



China seeks to legalise “disappearances”
				•September 4, 2011  • 5 Comments 

http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/asia/china/8732276/China-seeks-to-legalise-disappearances.html

Amendments to China’s house arrest laws would allow prisoners to be detained in secret locations and without their families being informed, according to proposals published this week on the website of China’s rubber-stamp parliament, the National People’s Congress.


Under current Chinese law suspects can be placed under six months house arrest, but they must usually be held in their own homes, unless they have no fixed address.


But under the new rules Chinese police will be allowed to hold suspects incognito if they suspected them of involvement in terrorism, endangering state security, or if keeping them in their own homes would “interfere with investigations”.


In practice, warn Chinese lawyers and international rights groups, the provisions will give the police a legal fig-leaf for the disappearance of enemies of the ruling Communist Party which includes anyone considered subversive or a threat to state security.


“This is in complete contravention of international standards,” said Nicholas Bequelin, a researcher on China for Human Rights Watch, an advocacy group based in New York, “One of the key principles of international human rights law is deprivation of freedom can only take place if it has been decided by the court.” Zhang Peihong, a well-known Chinese criminal defense lawyer who defended Australian national Stern Hu in last year’s Rio Tinto industrial espionage and fraud case, described the developments as “terrifying”.
———–
i swear i am living in 1984..the world gets stranger by the hour..legalise people just vanishing..please..
401


Posted in Asia, China, World News 



Terry Richardson (think Lady Gaga) and his Vogue shoot
				•September 4, 2011  • 3 Comments 




http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Terry_Richardson
Richardson was born in New York City, the son of Bob Richardson, a fashion photographer who struggled with schizophrenia and drug abuse. Richardson was raised in Hollywood, a neighborhood of Los Angeles, California, where he attended Hollywood High School; and Ojai, California, where he attended Nordhoff High School. He was shy as a teenager and at some times deemed “completely lacking in social skills”. He played bass guitar in the punk rock band The Invisible Government for 5 years. Richardson began photography when the band broke up and his mother introduced him to Tony Kent, a photographer who hired him as an assistant.
Richardson’s photographs often contain graphic sexual subject matter. Richardson has shot advertisements for fashion designers and editorial photographs.
His attitude towards models has been criticised by Danish model and filmmaker Rie Rasmussen and others, who have accused Richardson of exploiting and sexually abusing the models he photographs. But model and actress Noot Seear has defended him, pointing out that he does not pressure those he works with into doing anything they are uncomfortable with, while designer Marc Jacobs, although admitting problems within the industry, has said that as a person Richardson is “not ill-spirited.”
———–
i just cant work out what hes trying to say in those pictures..do you know?
401

Posted in France, Music, Sport & Entertainment, Religion, USA, World News 



Mobile internet use nearing 50% in UK
				•September 4, 2011  • 4 Comments 

http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/technology-14731757
Almost half of UK internet users are going online via mobile phone data connections, according to the Office for National Statistics.
45% of people surveyed said they made use of the net while out and about, compared with 31% in 2010.
The most rapid growth was among younger people, where 71% of internet-connected 16 to 24-year-olds used mobiles.
Domestic internet use also rose. According to the ONS, 77% of households now have access to a net connection.
That figure was up 4% from the previous year, representing the slowest rate of growth since the ONS survey began in 2006.
Among the 23% of the population who remain offline, half said they “didn’t need the internet.”
The ONS report is the first since dot-com entrepreneur Martha Lane-Fox was appointed as the government’s UK Digital Champion, with a brief to increase internet uptake.
In a statement, Ms Lane-Fox said: “That so many offline households don’t see any reason to get online reinforces the importance of the digital champions network that the Raceonline2012 partners are creating.”
———–
i repeat..the internet is dead..and we will be the losers..as we move to url located links instead of surfing we will not find the great diamonds tucked away..the mobile coverage is also heavily censored..
401

Posted in UK, World News 



Goldman Sachs ripped off Gaddafi
				•September 4, 2011  • 1 Comment 

————
thanks to eggins10 for the link..
of course they did..if hes a “tyrant” you can do anything you want to them..its great being on the “right” side of these things every time isnt?   *sarcasm
401

Posted in Libya, USA, World Finances, World News 



Exxon Mobil clinches Arctic oil deal with Rosneft
				•September 4, 2011  • 8 Comments 

http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-14720830
US oil major Exxon Mobil has clinched an Arctic oil exploration deal with Russian state-owned oil firm Rosneft.
The venture seemingly extinguishes any remaining chance of BP reviving its own deal, which lapsed in May.
The agreement was signed on Tuesday in the presence of Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, a Rosneft spokesman said.
Prime Minister Putin said that it would also allow Rosneft to develop fields in the Gulf of Mexico and Texas, according to local media reports.
“New horizons are opening up. One of the world’s leading companies, Exxon Mobil, is starting to work on Russia’s strategic shelf and deepwater continental shelf,” he said
Under the agreement, the two firms will spend $3.2bn on deep-sea exploration in the East Prinovozemelsky region of the Kara Sea, as well as in the Russian Black Sea.
Exxon described these areas as “among the most promising and least explored offshore areas globally, with high potential for liquids and gas”.
The two companies will also co-operate on the development of oil fields in Western Siberia.
Exxon spokesman Alan Jeffers told the BBC: “[The Russian Arctic] is among the most promising and least explored regions for oil, that is why we are very interested.
“Exxon Mobil has developed an excellent working relationship with Rosneft [in recent years].”
Analysts agreed that the joint venture would allow both sides to spread the risks of operating in the Arctic and enables Rosneft to benefit from Exxon’s superior deepwater drilling expertise.
BP’s own Arctic deal with Rosneft – originally agreed in January – was scuppered by a legal challenge from the Russian co-investors in BP’s existing Russian joint venture, TNK-BP.
“If this is essentially the BP deal, it is exposure to a pretty significant resource base,” said Jason Gammel, energy analyst at Macquarie Research, adding it was a “pretty big win” for Exxon.
“There’s a lot of risk that’s involved in [the Kara Sea exploration]. BP was looking at several billion dollars of exploration expenditures up there.”
Analysts said that Rosneft was known to be keen to push quickly ahead with its Arctic exploration plans after the BP deal fell through, with Shell also thought to have been in the running.
———–
exxon the biggest..gets the biggest prize..with love from russia..and who is whose enemy?
401

Posted in Arctic, Russia, USA, World News 



How Israel takes its revenge on boys who throw stones
				•September 4, 2011  • 1 Comment 

http://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/middle-east/how-israel-takes-its-revenge-on-boys-who-throw-stones-2344037.html
The boy, small and frail, is struggling to stay awake. His head lolls to the side, at one point slumping on to his chest. “Lift up your head! Lift it up!” shouts one of his interrogators, slapping him. But the boy by now is past caring, for he has been awake for at least 12 hours since he was separated at gunpoint from his parents at two that morning. “I wish you’d let me go,” the boy whimpers, “just so I can get some sleep.”
During the nearly six-hour video, 14-year-old Palestinian Islam Tamimi, exhausted and scared, is steadily broken to the point where he starts to incriminate men from his village and weave fantastic tales that he believes his tormentors want to hear.
This rarely seen footage seen by The Independent offers a glimpse into an Israeli interrogation, almost a rite of passage that hundreds of Palestinian children accused of throwing stones undergo every year.
Israel has robustly defended its record, arguing that the treatment of minors has vastly improved with the creation of a military juvenile court two years ago. But the children who have faced the rough justice of the occupation tell a very different story.
“The problems start long before the child is brought to court, it starts with their arrest,” says Naomi Lalo, an activist with No Legal Frontiers, an Israeli group that monitors the military courts. It is during their interrogation where their “fate is doomed”, she says.
Sameer Shilu, 12, was asleep when the soldiers smashed in the front door of his house one night. He and his older brother emerged bleary-eyed from their bedroom to find six masked soldiers in their living room.
Checking the boy’s name on his father’s identity card, the officer looked “shocked” when he saw he had to arrest a boy, says Sameer’s father, Saher. “I said, ‘He’s too young; why do you want him?’ ‘I don’t know,’ he said”. Blindfolded, and his hands tied painfully behind his back with plastic cords, Sameer was bundled into a Jeep, his father calling out to him not to be afraid. “We cried, all of us,” his father says. “I know my sons; they don’t throw stones.”
In the hours before his interrogation, Sameer was kept blindfolded and handcuffed, and prevented from sleeping. Eventually taken for interrogation without a lawyer or parent present, a man accused him of being in a demonstration, and showed him footage of a boy throwing stones, claiming it was him.
“He said, ‘This is you’, and I said it wasn’t me. Then he asked me, ‘Who are they?’ And I said that I didn’t know,” Sameer says. “At one point, the man started shouting at me, and grabbed me by the collar, and said, ‘I’ll throw you out of the window and beat you with a stick if you don’t confess’.”
Sameer, who protested his innocence, was fortunate; he was released a few hours later. But most children are frightened into signing a confession, cowed by threats of physical violence, or threats against their families, such as the withdrawal of work permits.
When a confession is signed, lawyers usually advise children to accept a plea bargain and serve a fixed jail sentence even if not guilty. Pleading innocent is to invite lengthy court proceedings, during which the child is almost always remanded in prison. Acquittals are rare. “In a military court, you have to know that you’re not looking for justice,” says Gabi Lasky, an Israeli lawyer who has represented many children.
There are many Palestinian children in the West Bank villages in the shadow of Israel’s separation wall and Jewish settlements on Palestinian lands. Where largely non-violent protests have sprung up as a form of resistance, there are children who throw stones, and raids by Israel are common. But lawyers and human rights groups have decried Israel’s arrest policy of targeting children in villages that resist the occupation.
In most cases, children as young as 12 are hauled from their beds at night, handcuffed and blindfolded, deprived of sleep and food, subjected to lengthy interrogations, then forced to sign a confession in Hebrew, a language few of them read.
Israeli rights group B’Tselem concluded that, “the rights of minors are severely violated, that the law almost completely fails to protect their rights, and that the few rights granted by the law are not implemented”.
Israel claims to treat Palestinian minors in the spirit of its own law for juveniles but, in practice, it is rarely the case. For instance, children should not be arrested at night, lawyers and parents should be present during interrogations, and the children must be read their rights. But these are treated as guidelines, rather than a legal requirement, and are frequently flouted. And Israel regards Israeli youngsters as children until 18, while Palestinians are viewed as adults from 16.
Lawyers and activists say more than 200 Palestinian children are in Israeli jails. “You want to arrest these kids, you want to try them,” Ms Lalo says. “Fine, but do it according to Israeli law. Give them their rights.”
In the case of Islam, the boy in the video, his lawyer, Ms Lasky, believes the video provides the first hard proof of serious irregularities in interrogation.
In particular, the interrogator failed to inform Islam of his right to remain silent, even as his lawyer begged to no avail to see him. Instead, the interrogator urged Islam to tell him and his colleagues everything, hinting that if he did so, he would be released. One interrogator suggestively smacked a balled fist into the palm of his hand.
By the end of the interrogation Islam, breaking down in sobs, has succumbed to his interrogators, appearing to give them what they want to hear. Shown a page of photographs, his hand moves dully over it, identifying men from his village, all of whom will be arrested for protesting.
Ms Lasky hopes this footage will change the way children are treated in the occupied territories, in particular, getting them to incriminate others, which lawyers claim is the primary aim of interrogations. The video helped gain Islam’s release from jail into house arrest, and may even lead to a full acquittal of charges of throwing stones. But right now, a hunched and silent Islam doesn’t feel lucky. Yards from his house in Nabi Saleh is the home of his cousin, whose husband is in jail awaiting trial along with a dozen others on the strength of Islam’s confession.
The cousin is magnanimous. “He is a victim, he is just a child,” says Nariman Tamimi, 35, whose husband, Bassem, 45, is in jail. “We shouldn’t blame him for what happened. He was under enormous pressure.”
Israel’s policy has been successful in one sense, sowing fear among children and deterring them from future demonstrations. But the children are left traumatised, prone to nightmares and bed-wetting. Most have to miss a year of school, or even drop out.
Israel’s critics say its policy is creating a generation of new activists with hearts filled with hatred against Israel. Others say it is staining the country’s character. “Israel has no business arresting these children, trying them, oppressing them,” Ms Lalo says, her eyes glistening. “They’re not our children. My country is doing so many wrongs and justifying them. We should be an example, but we have become an oppressive state.”
Child detention figures
7,000 [Figure corrected, with apologies for earlier production error.] The estimated number of Palestinian children detained and prosecuted in Israeli military courts since 2000, shows a report by Defence for Children International Palestine (DCIP).
87 The percentage of children subjected to some form of physical violence while in custody. About 91 per cent are also believed to be blindfolded at some point during their detention.
12 The minimum age of criminal responsibility, as stipulated in the Military Order 1651.
62 The percentage of children arrested between 12am and 5am.
———-
archived for history..
401

Posted in Israel 



Paris summit on Libya..the pigs have their snouts in the trough
				•September 3, 2011  • 4 Comments 





http://www.dailystar.com.lb/News/Middle-East/2011/Sep-02/147726-world-boosts-new-libya.ashx#axzz1WkYRFqrm
World leaders unlocked $15 billion in funds Thursday to help Libya’s victorious rebels rebuild the war-torn country, as fugitive strongman Moammar Gadhafi vowed again Thursday not to surrender.
Forty-two years to the day since Gadhafi stormed to power in a coup, senior envoys from over 60 countries met the leaders of the revolution that overthrew him to endorse the fledgling regime and offer practical support.
But, in their “Friends of Libya” meeting in Paris, they also put the leaders of the National Transitional Council on notice to pursue a path of reconciliation, despite Gadhafi’s latest message of defiance from his desert hiding place.
The Elysee Palace guest list was a victory in itself for the NTC, as once skeptical Russia and China and Libya’s reluctant neighbor Algeria agreed to extend their backing to the new government.
It was French President Nicolas Sarkozy, the rebels’ most prominent backer from the outset, who made the announcement that $15 billion of Libyan overseas assets which had been frozen would now be unblocked.
“Today, France unfroze 1.5 billion euros of Libyan assets,” Sarkozy said, before estimating the total sum released by world powers in the wake of Moammar Gadhafi’s fall: “Around $15 billion have been immediately unfrozen.”
“We are committed to returning to the Libyans the monies of yesterday for the building of tomorrow,” he said. But, speaking alongside the rebels’ leader, he also urged the NTC to begin a “process of reconciliation and forgiveness.”
NTC president Mustafa Abdel Jalil said the Libyan people had “proved their courage and their determination” to the international community in their fight to topple Gadhafi but he also pleaded for stability. “Now everything is in your hands,” he said in a message to the Libyan people.  “It’s up to you to accomplish what we promised: stability, peace and reconciliation,” Abdel Jalil added.The rebels have issued an ultimatum for Gadhafi and his followers to surrender, amassing troops around his hometown of Sirte for a final battle.
At the Paris conference, NATO Secretary-General Anders Fogh Rasmussen said the alliance would continue its six-month operation in Libya for as long as the civilian population was in danger.
Gadhafi, who might once have marked the coup anniversary with a triumphant speech, released his latest bluster on tape, vowing: “We will not surrender. We are not women and we are going to keep on fighting.”
While the mood in Paris was upbeat, U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton sounded a note of caution, urging the rebels to beware extremism in their own ranks and prevent weapons from falling into the wrong hands.
“The international community, led by the U.N., needs to help the Libyan people and its leaders pave a path to a sustainable, inclusive democracy that banishes violence as a political tool and promotes tolerance,” she said.
http://www.theaustralian.com.au/business/world/world-support-for-libyan-rebels-trip-on-race-for-libya-oil/story-e6frg90o-1226128092712
Divisions emerged, however, in the race for access to Libyan oil, between countries that took part in the foreign military intervention against Gaddafi’s on the one hand, and nations such as Russia and China, which didn’t.
French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe said he thought it would only be reasonable if his country’s companies benefited from preferential access to Libyan contracts given that Paris, together with Britain, led the foreign military offensive in Libya.
“The NTC has said very publicly that, in the reconstruction effort, it would give preferential treatment to those who supported them,” Mr. Juppe told French radio RTL. “That seems quite logical and fair.”
France in March became the first country to recognize the NTC as the legitimate representative of the Libyan people.
Russia, which abstained when the United Nations Security Council passed its March resolution authorizing the use of force in Libya, has said the U.N., not a small group of countries, should take the lead in supporting Libya’s reconstruction.
Libya is home to Africa’s largest known oil reserves and, until the war, ranked as one of continent’s biggest producers, with daily output of 1.6 million barrels. But output slowed to a trickle and exports halted completely as the violence intensified. Analysts say it may take 12 to 18 months for Libya to get back to the production levels seen before the conflict broke out in February.
Italy, the former colonial ruler in Libya, which played an active role in the foreign military intervention, has been off to a fast start to resume business activities in Libya. This week, Italy’s Eni SpA, the largest foreign oil company in Libya, signed an agreement with Libya’s interim government to supply natural gas and fuel for the immediate needs of the local population.
Eni chief executive Paolo Scaroni said in an interview that Libya’s new government will respect all existing oil contracts and that oil output should return to pre-crisis levels by the end of 2012.
———–
remember the good old days ..from 2009..

this is the feeding feenzy now..the funds are released and the pigs get busy..they are already squabbling over who gets what and gaddafi aint even gone..this was a meeting for heads of state..but also for private contractors..now i would love to see the invitee list of that lot..
enormous symbolism in those pictures above as well..
401

Posted in France, Libya, World Finances, World News 



Madonna at W.E. premiere in Venice
				•September 3, 2011  • Leave a Comment 



http://www.google.com/hostednews/afp/article/ALeqM5hRiFFmt66bgRCWGKZ8JsU40HyvJw?docId=CNG.a724b78e2e84cd84028c7fdda12aa83e.61
Madonna jokingly defended her title as “Queen of Pop” Thursday, quipping she would never give up her throne for love like King Edward VIII — the subject of her latest film screened in Venice.
Hundreds of crazed fans screamed as the singer posed on the red carpet in a striking pale blue dress with a red butterfly pattern and a long sweeping train — matched with large red-rimmed sunglasses and a dynamite red lipstick.
The glamourous singer kissed and hugged the “W.E” cast members before heading inside to watch the movie premiere at the oldest film festival in the world, along with guests including Italian fashion designer Valentino.
Madonna’s second directorial work, “W.E.”, starring British actors James D’Arcy and Andrea Riseborough, tells the tale of the king’s famous romance with American divorcee Wallis Simpson — and his subsequent abdication.
“Would I ever give up my throne for a man or a woman?” a flirtatious Madonna said after the advance press screening at the 68th Venice Film Festival.
“I think I can have both… or all three!” she told journalists, after speeding across the lagoon from the luxury Bauer hotel on Venice’s Grand Canal where she is staying.
Madonna said she had wanted to capture the “world of luxury, beauty and decadence” of the 1930s, as well as the “rarefied air in the modern world”, which is also one of wealth and sensuality, but “does not guarantee happiness”.
———–
hi butterfly..i ask why?
401

Posted in Italy, Music, Sport & Entertainment, World News 



London’s missing summer – coldest..wettest..cloudiest for 18 years
				•September 3, 2011  • 8 Comments 

http://www.londonnet.co.uk/news/2011/aug/londons-missing-summer-coldest-wettest-cloudiest-18-years.html
THE UK has had its coldest summer since 1993, new Met Office figures have revealed.
Today’s temperature of 15c in London highlights the Met Office’s research. Average London August temperatures are 18c.
“Since the last real heatwave in July 2006 we’ve had a run of average or poor summers in Britain,” said Brian Gaze of TheWeatherOutlook.
“But 2011 will probably be remembered as the worst of them.”
As well as lower than average temperatures, there has been more rain – about a quarter more than usual – and less sun – about a quarter less than usual.
“During the 1990s and 2000s, summer heatwaves were more frequent than usual, and perhaps some people began to think this was the norm,” Gaze told The Independent.
———–
exactly what bubble do some people live in?..does not this information, and similarity around the world, set off some sort of doubt..maybe just a tiny bit?? this is not meant to be happening..according to them..but note how “droughts and fires and heatwaves and floods“..is now added into the scare machine when reporting on climate change..how do they get floods from record heatwaves anyway??
401

Posted in Climate Change, UK 



« Previous Entries





Breaking News
MORE: Libyan convey crossing into Niger contained 200-250 vehicles; arrived in Agadez late Monday - Reuters 15 minutes ago
Large convoy of Libyan armored vehicles arrives in Niger under military escort, French and Nigerian military sources tell Reuters 36 minutes ago
Man straps a bomb to himself and is holding a girl, 11, hostage in Australian family court - DailyTelegraph http://t.co/NJGoc6g 42 minutes ago
8,000 told to evacuate homes from approaching fire near Houston, Texas - @KTRKHouston http://t.co/9B06y3Y 46 minutes ago
Heavy rains flood streets in Birmingham, AL; 3.5 inches recorded by 4pm - AL.com http://t.co/I4ovhxh 1 hour ago

  Latest posts 
Microsoft “intentionally designed software for phones to track customers without their consent”
Iran says nuclear-power plant “operational”
Stieg Larsson – Millenium Series books/movies
Is this the UN’s “Abu Ghraib moment” in Haiti?
Russia agrees to $65B rail & tunnel project linking Siberia and Alaska
Looking for the deepest laws of the universe
The End of Eden
Evidence indicates global warming is caused by cosmic rays and the sun — not humans
US infected more Guatemalans than previously thought
“US raids kill al-Qaeda fighters” in Yemen..how do they know they are al Qaeda?
The U.N Trap pt.1/14
China seeks to legalise “disappearances”
Terry Richardson (think Lady Gaga) and his Vogue shoot
Mobile internet use nearing 50% in UK
Goldman Sachs ripped off Gaddafi

follow the money 
RT @BORNasZOEY: Damn russia RT @seeker401: Iran says nuclear-power plant “operational” http://t.co/ga4seKc 15 minutes ago
RT @amandascout1: Moonday ♡ RT @MrsLuckyDestiny: Happy #MoonDay twitfam ! Love, M. @starcana @wizard_paradox @JewIshGypsy @SagittarianMi ... 15 minutes ago
RT @SagittarianMind: Yo, Yo!! RT @msdeem9: Moonday wave~~@MrsLuckyDestiny @starcana @wizard_paradox @JewIshGypsy @SagittarianMind @seeke ... 15 minutes ago
Microsoft “intentionally designed software for phones to track customers without their consent” http://t.co/FEhZQc9 1 hour ago
Iran says nuclear-power plant “operational” http://t.co/QrkB4Pn 1 hour ago

Follow @seeker401 follow the money rss feedMicrosoft “intentionally designed software for phones to track customers without their consent” September 5, 2011 seeker401#wiredpirate – click pic to chat 


  visitors from 5th March 2009 
2,336,123 FOLLOWING THE MONEY

Categories
Select Category
9/11
Abkhazia
Abu Dhabi
Afghanistan
Africa
Alaska
Albania
Algeria
Angola
Antarctica
Arctic
Argentina
Armenia
Asia
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Belarus
Belgium
Bhutan
Bolivia
Bosnia
Brazil
Bulgaria
Burma
Cambodia
Cameroon
Canada
Chechnya
Chile
China
Climate Change
Colombia
Congo
Costa Rica
Cote d’Ivoire
Croatia
Cuba
Cyprus
Czech Republic
Denmark
Derivatives
Djibouti
Dominican Republic
East Timor
Ecuador
Egypt
El Salvador
Eritrea
Estonia
Ethiopia
Europe
Finland
France
FTM Fan Pictures
Gabon
Gambia
Georgia
Germany
Ghana
Greece
Greenland
Guam
Guatemala
Guinea
Haiti
Holland
Honduras
Hong Kong
Hungary
Iceland
India
Indonesia
Interfaith
Iran
Iraq
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Ivory Coast
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kosovo
Kuwait
Kyrgyzstan
Latvia
Lebanon
Liberia
Libya
Lithuania
Madagascar
Malawi
Malaysia
Maldives
Mali
Mexico
Middle East
Moldovia
Mongolia
Montenegro
Morocco
Mozambique
Music, Sport & Entertainment
Myanmar
Namibia
Nepal
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nicaragua
Niger
Nigeria
North Korea
Northern Ireland
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Papua New Guinea
Paraguay
Peru
Phillipines
Poland
Portugal
Puerto Rico
Qatar
Religion
Robotic Agenda
Romania
Russia
Samoa
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Senegal
Serbia
Seychelles
Siberia
Sierra Leone
Singapore
Somalia
South Africa
South Korea
South Sudan
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sudan
Sumatra
Swaziland
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tajikistan
Tanzania
Thailand
Tibet
Tonga
Trinidad & Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turkmenistan
UAE
Uganda
UK
Ukraine
Uncategorized
Uruguay
USA
Uzbekistan
Vanuatu
Vatican
Venezuela
Vietnam
World Finances
World News
Yemen
Zambia
Zimbabwe


 



Blogroll

911 Project Timeline
Abel Danger
Aftermath News
Al Jazeera English
As . tro. tom' . e . try
Associated Press
Avenue Of Light
BBC News
Biblical Times News
Bloomberg
Chaotic Fate
Climate Depot
Daily Mail UK
Daily Stockmarket Forecast
Daniel Estulin
FDR-AllOverAgain
Freemasonry Watch
Global Research
Goro Adachi
Hypertiger
Jane Burgermeister
Jerusalem Post
Karl Denninger
Kitco
Labyrinth of the Psychonaut
Ludwig von Mises Institute
Martin Armstrong
Max Keiser
MEED
Natural News
POLITEIA
Real-Time Web Monitor
Restore The Republic
Reuters
Russia Today
Space Weather
Spiegel
Sy5551′s Blog
The 2012 Deception
The CrowHouse
The Enigma Channel
The Galactic Centre 2012
The Hidden Records
The Industry Exposed
The Market Oracle
The Pop Culture Pastor
The Raziel Remnants
The Secret Sun
Thebarcaroller
There Is Nothing New Under The Sun
UPI
USGS
Veritas 6464
Vigilant Citizen
Volcano Live
Wall Street Journal
What Really Happened
Wired
Xinhua Net
Zen Trader

Watch videos at Vodpod and other videos from this collection.

  Recent Comments seeker401 on Exxon Mobil clinches Arctic oi…seeker401 on Evidence indicates global warm…Ridiculed Conspiraci… on New fault stretches from N.Y. …xxx on Exxon Mobil clinches Arctic oi…seeker401 on Evidence indicates global warm…seeker401 on The End of Edenseeker401 on The End of Edenxxx on Evidence indicates global warm…seeker401 on The U.N Trap pt.1/14seeker401 on The U.N Trap pt.1/14seeker401 on An explosive story on Indian c…seeker401 on Evidence indicates global warm…seeker401 on Evidence indicates global warm…seeker401 on Charles “Chuck” Fe…seeker401 on The End of Eden
Archives  Select Month  September 2011  (36)
 August 2011  (193)
 July 2011  (188)
 June 2011  (170)
 May 2011  (176)
 April 2011  (168)
 March 2011  (190)
 February 2011  (184)
 January 2011  (188)
 December 2010  (186)
 November 2010  (183)
 October 2010  (205)
 September 2010  (183)
 August 2010  (189)
 July 2010  (180)
 June 2010  (183)
 May 2010  (198)
 April 2010  (169)
 March 2010  (179)
 February 2010  (157)
 January 2010  (180)
 December 2009  (202)
 November 2009  (194)
 October 2009  (172)
 September 2009  (188)
 August 2009  (147)
 July 2009  (152)
 June 2009  (128)
 May 2009  (108)
 April 2009  (71)
 March 2009  (50)

  Top Clicks grahamphillips.net/eden/eden_1…grahamphillips.net/eden/eden_1…seeker401.files.wordpress.com/…followthemoney.forumotion.net/…theresnothingnew.org/index/mn3…seeker401.files.wordpress.com/…seeker401.files.wordpress.com/…seeker401.files.wordpress.com/…ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/169085…seeker401.files.wordpress.com/…blog.alexanderhiggins.com/2011…seeker401.files.wordpress.com/… Gravatar
Follow The Money
“ Signs and symbols rule the world, not words nor laws. ” – Confucious  
” Military men are just dumb stupid animals, to be used as pawns in foreign policy. ”  – Henry Kissinger 
” We are on the verge of a global transformation. All we need is the right major crisis and the nations will accept the New World Order. ” – David Rockefeller 
” How pale is the art of sorcerers, witches, and conjurors when compared with that of the government’s Treasury Department! ” – Ludwig von Mises 
“ It is well enough that people of the nation do not understand our banking and monetary system, for if they did, I believe there would be a revolution before tomorrow morning. ” – Henry Ford 
” To you, Sovereign Instructors of Grade 33, we tell you: you have to repeat to the brothers of inferior grades that we worship only one God to whom we pray without superstition. It is we, initiated in the Supreme Grade, that are to keep the real Masonic religion preserving pure the Lucifer doctrine. ” – Albert Pike 
” The Jesuits…are a secret society – a sort of Masonic order – with superadded features of revolting odiousness, and a thousand times more dangerous. ” – Samuel Morse  
” If I were reincarnated, I would wish to be returned to earth as a killer virus to lower human population levels. ” – HRH Prince Phillip 
“ I have learnt most of all from the Jesuit Order. So far, there has been nothing more imposing on earth than the hierarchical organization of the Catholic Church. A good part of that organization I have transported direct to my own party. The Catholic Church must be held up as an example. I will tell you a secret. I am founding an order. In Himmler (who would become head of the Nazi party) I see our Ignatius de Loyola (Jesuit founder). ” – Adolph Hitler 
” In order to stabilize world population, we must eliminate 350,000 per day. ” – Jacques Cousteau  
“ Give me control of a nation’s money and I care not who makes it’s laws. ” – Mayer Amschel Bauer Rothschild 
” No one will enter the New World Order unless he or she will make a pledge to worship Lucifer. No one will enter the New Age unless he will take a Luciferian Initiation. ” – David Spangler UN 
” We know in the not too distant future, a half dozen corporations are going to control the media. ” – Time Warner 
” The high office of President has been used to ferment a plot to destroy the Americans freedom, and before I leave office I must inform the citizens of this plight. ” – jfk 
” The Jesuits are a MILITARY organization, not a religious order. Their chief is a general of an army, not the mere father abbot of a monastery. And the aim of this organization is power – power in its most despotic exercise – absolute power, universal power, power to control the world by the volition of a single man. Jesuitism is the most absolute of despotisms – and at the same time the greatest and most enormous of abuses. ” – Napoleon Bonaparte 
” … in politics nothing is accidental. If something happens, be assured it was planned this way. ” – Franklin D Roosevelt 
” It is my opinion that if the liberties of this country – the United States of America – are destroyed, it will be by the subtlety of the Roman Catholic Jesuit priests, for they are the most crafty, dangerous enemies to civil and religious liberty. They have instigated MOST of the wars of Europe. ” – Marquis de LaFayette 
” The society will be dominated by an elite of persons free from traditional values who will have no doubt in fulfilling their objectives by means of purged techniques with which they will influence the behavior of people and will control and watch the society in all details. It will become possible to exert a practically permanent watch on each citizen of the world. ” – Zbigniew Brzezinski 
” The world is governed by very different personages from what is imagined by those who are’nt behind the scenes. ” – Benjamin Disraeli 
” If we like it or not, we will have a One World Government. The question is if it will be achieved through consent or through conquest. ” – james warburg 
” The United Nations is but a long range, international banking apparatus clearly set up for financial and economic profit by a small group of powerful One World revolutionaries, hungry for profit and power. ” – curtis dall 
“ It is not my intention to doubt that the doctrine of the Illuminati and the principles of Jacobinism had not spread in the United States. On the contrary, no one is more satisfied of this fact than I am. ” – George washington 
” Blinding ignorance does mislead us. Oh Wretched mortals, open your eyes! ” – Leonardo da Vinci 
“ There is nothing new in the world except the history you do not know. ” – harry truman 
” It’s a big club, and you ain’t in it. You and I are not in the big club. ” – George Carlin  
” I will warn you against him (the Dajjal,anti-christ)… but I tell you about him something of which no prophet told his nation before me. You should know that he is one-eyed, and Allah is not one-eyed. ” – Prophet Mohammed 
” Those who manipulate the organized habits and opinions of the masses constitute an invisible government which is the true ruling power of our country. ” – Edward Bernays CBS 
” And at the same time the consciousness of being at war, and therefore in danger, makes the handing-over of all power to a small caste seem the natural, unavoidable condition of survival… It does not matter whether the war is actually happening, and, since no decisive victory is possible, it does not matter whether the war is going well or badly. All that is needed is that a state of war should exist… The war, therefore, if we judge it by the standards of previous wars, is merely an imposture. It is like the battles between certain ruminant animals whose horns are set at such an angle that they are incapable of hurting one another. But though it is unreal it is not meaningless. It eats up the surplus of consumable goods, and it helps to preserve the special mental atmosphere that a hierarchical society needs. War, it will be seen, is now a purely internal affair. In the past, the ruling groups of all countries, although they might recognize their common interest and therefore limit the destructiveness of war, did fight against one another, and the victor always plundered the vanquished. In our own day they are not fighting against one another at all. The war is waged by each ruling group against its own subjects, and the object of the war is not to make or prevent conquests of territory, but to keep the structure of society intact. The very word ‘war’, therefore, has become misleading. It would probably be accurate to say that by becoming continuous war has ceased to exist. ” – george orwell 
” In the country of the blind, the one-eyed man is king ” –  Erasmus 
“There’s no way to rule innocent men. The only power any government has is the power to crack down on criminals. Well, when there aren’t enough criminals, one makes them. One declares so many things to be a crime that it becomes impossible for men to live without breaking laws.” – Ayn Rand 
Meta 
Register Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.com




 

Blog at WordPress.com. Theme: ChaoticSoul by Bryan Veloso. 





















