For Virginia town at epicenter of earthquake, near miss by Irene is proof they’re not cursed - The Washington Post









Print Subscription


Conversations
Today's Paper






Going Out Guide




Jobs




Cars




Real Estate




Rentals




Classifieds







Home


Politics





Campaign 2012
			


Congress
			


Courts &
				Law


The Fed Page


Health Care








				Polling
			


White House
			


Who Runs Gov


Blogs & Columns





Top Blogs

The Fix | Chris Cillizza
2chambers | Felicia Sonmez
Federal Eye | Ed O’Keefe
Fact Checker | Glenn Kessler
















Opinions





All Opinions


PostPartisan


Left-Leaning


Right-Leaning


Toles
				Cartoons
			








				Telnaes
				Animations


Local


Columnist Index












Local





DC: 
Politics
| News


MD: 
Politics
| Communities


VA: 
Politics
| Communities


Crime
			


Education
			







On Faith/Local
			


Obituaries
			


Traffic & Commuting
			


Weather
			


Blogs & Columns
			


The Root DC
			





Top Blogs

Crime Scene | Bicyclists open fire near Hill
Capital Weather Gang | Your Labor Day forecast
Special Report | Back to School 2011
Going Out Gurus | Free and easy outings









Sports






				Redskins/NFL



				Capitals/NHL


Wizards/NBA


Nationals/MLB



				DC United/Soccer








				Colleges


AllMetSports


Other Sports


Blogs & Columns





Top Blogs

Capitals Insider| Katie Carrera
Nationals Journal| Adam Kilgore
Soccer Insider| Steven Goff
The Insider| Mike Jones









National





Corrections


Energy & Environment


Health & Science


Higher Education


National Security







On Faith
			


On Leadership


Innovations


Blogs & Columns





Top Blogs

Ideas@Innovations
Post Leadership
Under God
Checkpoint Washington









World





Africa
			


The
				Americas


Asia &
				Pacific


Europe
			


Middle East
			







National Security


War Zones
			


Special Reports


Checkpoint Washington












Business






				Economy
			


Industries


Local Business


Markets


Policy
				&
				Regulation







Technology
			


World
				Business


Blogs & Columns


Innovations


Special Reports





Top Blogs

Ezra Klein
Post Tech | Cecilia Kang
Faster Forward
Political Economy









Investigations
















Lifestyle





Advice
			


Carolyn Hax
			


Food
			


Home & Garden
			


Style
			







Travel
			


Weddings
			


Wellness
			


Magazine


KidsPost





Top Blogs

On Parenting | Janice D’Arcy
Arts Post | Jacqueline Trescott
The Checkup | Jennifer LaRue Huget & Rob Stein
All We Can Eat | Food section









Entertainment





Books


Celebrities


Comics
			


Going Out Guide


Horoscopes







Movies


Museums
			


Puzzles
			


Theater & Dance


TV
			





Top Blogs

Reliable Source | Roxanne Roberts & Amy Argetsinger
TV Column | Lisa de Moraes
Celebritology | Jen Chaney
Click Track | Chris Richards & David Malitz









Multimedia





Innovations



				Photos
			



				Videos
			



























The Washington Post
The Washington Post












Corrections
Energy & Environment
Health & Science
Higher Education
National Security
On Faith
			
On Leadership
Innovations
Blogs & Columns






In the News


Sarah Palin


Supernova


Freddie Mercury


U.S. Open


Redskins





























For Virginia town at epicenter of earthquake, near miss by Irene is proof they’re not cursed





Text Size

Print
E-mail
Reprints












						By  Associated Press, 







MINERAL, Va. — Staring out at her shell-shocked congregation Sunday, the Rev. Marian Windel felt the need to reassure her flock that God was not “mad at us in any way.”
 “For us, this past week has been trying at the least,” the Episcopal minister said, her clear voice echoing off the high-pitched ceiling of the Church of the Incarnation, Mineral’s oldest house of worship. “There was little, if anything, that we could have done to prepare for the earthquake. And who would have thought it would be followed by a hurricane?”




 Loading...

Comments


Weigh In
Corrections?











































( Allen Breed / Associated Press ) - In this Saturday, Aug. 27, 2011 photo, a car drives past a building damaged in this week’s earthquake in Mineral, Va. Some feared Hurricane Irene would finish what Tuesday’s temblor started, but the Virginia town got only the storm’s outermost bands.










This little town of about 400 was the epicenter of a 5.8 magnitude earthquake Tuesday that rattled the east coast, opening cracks in the Washington Monument and awakening the region to fears they had previously believed a West Coast plague. As Hurricane Irene steamed up the coast, its eye drifting farther westward with each passing day, some in this old mining town northwest of Richmond feared the winds would finish the work the temblor had started. “We were pretty much like, ‘What did WE do to Mother Nature to come through here like this,” Louisa County Fire Lt. Floyd Richard said as he stared at the darkening sky Saturday evening.Whatever that might have been, Mother Nature must have decided that Mineral had suffered enough.Mineral received a good soaking and some gusty winds, but Irene’s fury stayed far east of the town. Richardson said they had higher gusts during a 1,000-acre brush fire last February.The people of Mineral didn’t even lose power in the storm. “After it’s all done and over, we’re very fortunate,” Mayor Pam Harlowe said.The town — which, in the late 1800s, produced and shipped nearly half the nation’s supply of iron pyrite — couldn’t have stood much of a hit. Along Mineral Avenue, the town’s main street, the scars of Tuesday’s earthquake were everywhere.A gaping hope had opened in the back corner of the post office. Much of the brick curtain along the roof of the town hall had fallen away, and tarps were all there were to keep out the elements. At Main Street Plumbing & Electric Supply, flying buttresses of plywood and two-by-fours held up the brick wall. “Yes, we are open during construction,” read a sign out front. “Please support all local businesses.”Mercifully, the quake appears to have done little or no damage to the nearby North Anna nuclear power plant. For the most part, a sense of resignation — of “What more could happen to us?” — pervaded the town.At Miller’s Market, where the quake brought down ceiling tiles, emptied the shelves and open long cracks in the concrete floor, they stocked up with bread, milk, water and other staples in anticipation of a rush that never materialized. “We were expecting it to be a lot worse than it has been so far,” said a bored-looking manager Beth Strong. As a precaution, they closed up shop at 6:30 p.m. — an hour and a half early.Down the street, the Mineral Express Lane was closed for two days out of fear that the two-story brick building might collapse on the convenience store. As Irene approached Saturday, people were stocking up on gasoline, beer and scratch-off lottery tickets, but little else.









Continued

1

2

Next Page















EmailTumblr
Reddit
Stumbleupon
Digg
Delicious










???initialComments:true! pubdate:08/28/2011 12:22 EDT! commentPeriod:3! commentEndDate:8/31/11 12:22 EDT! currentDate:9/5/11 8:50 EDT! allowComments:false! displayComments:false!






Weigh In

Discussion Policy


About Discussions, Badges


 


 








Newest first


Oldest first


Most Recommended first












SuperFan
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.
If your comments or those of another user measure up, please let Post editors know.
Get a badgeNominate someone for a badge


Culture Connoisseur
Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.
If your comments or those of another user measure up, please let Post editors know.
Get a badgeNominate someone for a badge


Fact Checker
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.
If your comments or those of another user measure up, please let Post editors know.
Get a badgeNominate someone for a badge


Washingtologist
Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.
If your comments or those of another user measure up, please let Post editors know.
Get a badgeNominate someone for a badge


Post Writer
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.


Post Forum
Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.
If your comments or those of another user measure up, please let Post editors know.
Get a badgeNominate someone for a badge


World Watcher
World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs.
If your comments or those of another user measure up, please let Post editors know.
Get a badgeNominate someone for a badge


Post Recommended
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.


You must be logged in to report a comment.
Sign in here


You must be logged in to recommend a comment.
Sign in here


Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.
More about badgesGet a badge

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused".  If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.



Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.




+ SHARE THIS DEBATE














Slate


Slate V: Captcha Talks Back
New Hampshire Tea Party rally: Palin writes the GOP's campaign theme.
The 9/11 Commission Report in pictures: A graphic adaptation by Sid Jacobson and Ernie Colón




























The Post Most: NationMost-viewed stories, videos and galleries int he past two hours



Most Popular

Hurricane Katia grows to Category 3 with maximum sustained winds of 115 mph (185
Obama pulls back proposed smog standards in victory for business
Wildfire destroys 300 homes near Texas capital, prompts Perry to cut short South
See a supernova from your back yard this weekend
The Costco king checks out




Top Videos

Giant crocodile caught in Philippines
Aerial footage shows Vermont's flood damage
High winds worsen wildfires in Texas
Texas wildfire scorches homes, acres
Flood damage in Fleischmanns, N.Y.




Top Galleries

Supernovas of a generation
Wildfires force evacuations in Oklahoma, North Texas
River crests in Minot, N.D.
Lives rearranged by a 9/11 loss
Rebuilding the World Trade Center








Live Discussions

			There are no discussions scheduled today.
		




Ask Now


Advice from Slate’s Dear Prudence
Live Q&A, Tuesday 1 ESTJoin Slate advice columnist Dear Prudence to talk manners, morals and more.



 
Weekly schedule, past shows


Connect with the Post




























Facebook: Become a fan of the Washington Post





Facebook: Become a fan of the Washington Post



Twitter: Follow us on Twitter



RSS: Subscribe to our RSS feeds



Alerts: Sign up for news alerts



Mobile: Washington Post on the go



App Store: View our iPhone applications



 
Today's Paper






Full Paper
Metro
Style
Sports

Updated newspaper stories



National Newsletters
Sign-up for e-mail newsletters and alerts and get the news you need delivered directly to your inbox.
 




Economy & Business News Alerts
Behind the Government Showdown
National News Alerts




The Most
Today's Headlines & Columnists








See all Washington Post Newsletters


Featured Reads

Back to school guide
Everything parents and students need as they return to class.



The Root D.C.
A new space for the Washington area’s African-American community.



Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial
A monument honoring the slain civil rights leader is unveiled in D.C.








Network News      
   				Hide this






Most Popular
Friends' Activity
Most Popular
Most Tweeted
Twitter Activity





Most Popular Right Now






Your Friends’ Most Recent Activity



















Follow The Post:
Facebook
Twitter
View More Activity



















Featured Advertiser LinksOil Spill, Mesothelioma Class Action, Fosamax Fracture, Asbestos & Veterans , Actos Bladder Cancer>>Topamax Side Effects, Mesothelioma Treatment, Yaz Blood Clot, Asbestos cancer, Actos, Mesothelioma Symptoms>>Join Pres. Obama. It's time to do it again.>>Are you in? Join Barack Obama's campaign now.>>Help Pres. Obama keep moving America forward.>>Join the 2012 campaign at BarackObama.com>>Looking to buy a home? Visit TWP Real Estate section for the latest open houses.>>Make Your Vanguard Investing More Profitable - Free Research Report Reveals Best & Worst Funds>>







































Ways you can get us

Mobile
Apps
Newsletter & alerts
RSS
Post Store
Facebook
Photo Store
Twitter
Washington Post Live



The Washington Post

About Us
Work for us
Community Relations
PostPoints
Corrections/Suggestions
Archive
Contact the Ombudsman
Report a problem



Web site

Make us your homepage
Digital Guidelines

Newspaper

Subscribe
Home delivery service
e-Replica
Reprints



Advertise

In the newspaper
On the web site
Mobile
Events

The Washington Post Company

Post Company web sites



Partners

Slate
Who Runs Gov
Express Night Out
Captial Business
El Tiempo Latino
The Root
Foreign Policy
Trove


Post Tickets
Capitol Deal
Service Alley
Post Master Class
WP Live
Student Advisory



© 1996- The Washington Post
User Agreement and Privacy Policy
Rights and Permissions


Help
Contact Us
Ad Choices


















