Mapping Virginia Earthquake 2011 Locations, Tremor, Damages and Hazards                      U.S. FDA Reports Drug Shortages Have Caused Delay in...        Lack of Accountability In U.S.        Labor Day: What memories do you hold?        Is there a worse place on earth than Hyderabad Dog...        Labor Day 101 Starts With Workers Unions Yet Palin...        Jobs is the #1 issue that the Republicans and Tea Party...          Iranian police cracks down on "forbidden" water pistol...        Football Legend, Lee Roy Selmon, dead at 56, from...        Congress Returns Tomorrow: Additional FEMA Funding...        Palin raced undercover--is that how she runs all her...        Small Catholic Community But Many Kindergartens Here        Tony Blair is godfather to a daughter of Murdoch          National debate about South Africa’s future        Hunger crisis intensifies        COUPLE HELD HOSTAGE BY PIRATES PLAN ANOTHER ROUND THE...        Venice: Vasco unpublished, between friends and Zocca...        Pakistan, took a leading al-Qaeda         A LOCK OF NAPOLEON'S HAIR DCISCOVERED AT SIR WALTER...              Mapping Virginia Earthquake 2011 Locations, Tremor, Damages and Hazards    Santa Barbara :  CA :  USA
|
Aug 24, 2011
 
Source: International Business Times
          0 0      
Views: 33
      
Text Size The 5.8 magnitude Virginia earthquake of 2011 occurred at 1:51 p.m. (EDT) on August 23 at the Central Virginia Seismic Zone, which is known to have produced the strongest magnitude 5.9 earthquake in May 1897 in Giles County in the history of Virginia.
FULL ARTICLE AT International Business Times            
Credibility
      Reach             Global Reach This report's viewers come from the following
countries:            READ MORE: earthquake, quake, earthquakes, magnitude, aftershock, damage, Virginia, evacuated, U.S, Virginia Earthquake, Santa Barbara   More News From: Santa Barbara :  CA :  USA      Advertisement          Related Allvoices Contributions          EARTHQUAKE HITS PERU, ECUADOR, BRAZIL AND AUSTRALIA By: MuhammadSabir      In Peru, an earthquake having a 7.0 magnitude rocked the Capital Lima as well as neighboring Ecuador and Brazil.
An in Australia, a 6.2 magnitude earthquake also hit off the coast of the south Pacific Island of Vanuatu Thursday.
There were no immediate reports of damage or casualties.  11 days ago     6.8 magnitude earthquake hits Peru By: kingston23      An earthquake of magnitude 6.8 struck on Wednesday in Peru, with its epicenter near Pucallpa, in the center of the country near the border with Brazil, said the United States Geological Survey. There are no reports of casualties or damage. According to the U.S. organization, the quake occurred 82 miles north of Pucallpa in the Peruvian Amazon ...  12 days ago     Earthquake hits the U.S. East Coast  By: kingston23      A strong earthquake shook the East Coast of the United States and was felt even in Canada, shook buildings in major cities, delayed flights and trains and carried off thousands of workers scared to leave the streets. There were no reports of major damage or injuries from the quake of magnitude 5.9 on the Richter scale, the United States Geological ...  12 days ago     Strong earthquake jolts Virginia  By: Samantha86      
A strong earthquake measuring 5.9 on the Richter scale has jolted different parts of mid-Atlantic regions in the U.S.
Virginia experienced one of its worst earthquakes in history as a 5.9-magnitude earthquake jolted its different parts. Even though 5.9-magnitude earthquakes are considered moderate, it is being considered as one of the worst ...  12 days ago     U.S., concerns about nuclear after 5.8 quake on East Coast By: kingston23      The strongest earthquake on the east coast of the United States in the last 67 years, yesterday in Virginia with a magnitude of 5.8, has raised doubts about the safety of nuclear installations in the country.The earthquake hit the east coast of the United States, damaging some important buildings in the capital and forcing officials to take to the ...  12 days ago     Earthquake, fear the United States Congress and the Pentagon ... By: BURHANAALI      
People on the streets after the quake
Fear in Washington and New York, where he has been warned in the early afternoon a strong earthquake - equal to 5.9 on the Richter scale - which affected the whole East Coast, with its epicenter in Virginia, 140 km from the capital, including Richmond and Charlottesville. The quake was felt in many ...  12 days ago     6 M'tude EARTH QUAKE jolts WASHINGTON & US: Pacific on alert! By: Leosdesk      I had just about a week back in this same All voices breaking news that the Pacific and  Indian Ocean zones should be prepared for all eventualities of Earth Quake and Tsunami, as the EARTH IS RESETTLING and CORRECTING the mindless onslaught of man still sending a message and warning I am not happy the way you are playing with me. Correct ...  12 days ago      5.9 magnitude earthquake Shakes Eastern United States... By: Umair575       
An unusually strong magnitude 5.8 earthquake struck central Virginia Tuesday afternoon and sent tremors along the East Coast, which prompted office buildings from Washington D.C. to New York to be evacuated.
There were no immediate reports of injury or serious structural damage.
The earthquake struck near Mineral, Va., more than three miles ...  12 days ago     Earthquake shakes eastern U.S. coast By: taophuyen      U.S. east coast has been rocked by 5.9 magnitude quake, the strongest in more than 100 years here Pentagon, the parliament building and the museum in Washington DC was evacuated after the quake yesterday afternoon at 13h51. The three towers at the National Cathedral, the tallest building in Washington DC, the first basket and ...  12 days ago     Congress as an emergency evacuation of earthquake  By: lethibichlan      
A strong earthquake has rocked the east coast of America, the vibrations spread to take Canada, to shake up Washington, make people panic and the White House, Pentagon and Congress to emergency evacuation. U.S. Geological Agency reported 5.8 magnitude earthquake.The figure originally given the agency a 5.9 magnitude. This is ...  12 days ago     PHOTOS show devastation after the quake in Virginia and DC (23-8-2011)... By: faraway      
An earthquake measuring 5.8 was
felt Tuesday at 1:50
p.m. (7:50
p.m. in Paris) on the
U.S. east coast, including New York
and Washington, the
Pentagon, the White House and the
Capitol were evacuated. In
New York, the Manhattan attorney Cyrus
Vance Jr. ...  12 days ago     Quake shakes East Coast, causes evacuations  By: X-REPORTER      
n earthquake in central Virginia was felt across much of the East Coast on Tuesday, causing light damage and forcing hundreds of thousands of people to evacuate buildings in New York, Washington and other cities.
No tsunami warning was issued, but air and train traffic was disrupted across the Northeast and mid-Atlantic.
In the Washington ...  13 days ago     Virginia earthquake the strongest to hit US East Coast since 1897 By: egyjan25      The 5.8-magnitude earthquake that struck on Tuesday the east coast of the United States with its epicenter in Virginia was the most intense on record since 1897 in this area, informed the United States Geological Survey (USGS, its acronym in English) . The body indicates that despite the earthquakes in central and east are less frequent than on ...  13 days ago          Loading News Contributions...      More From Santa Barbara          Astronomers Worldwide Observe Supernova Birth        New Wedding Pics of Kim Kardashian & Kris Humphries (10+)        Kim Kardashian Received A Sex tape as A Wedding Gift        Kardashian, Humphries wed in TV-friendly ceremony          Get the scoop on Kim Kardashian wedding        Kim Kardashian, Kris Humphries & Their Families Attend A Post-Wedding Mass On The Beach!         Kardashian, Humphries to wed in evening ceremony        Kim Kardashian Delays Her Honeymoon          LIFELIKE T. REX A HIT AT SANTA BARBARA ZOO        Bar Refaeli thrills boyfriend with lesbian kiss        Blake Lively and Leonardo DiCaprio enjoy shopping date        Leonardo DiCaprio and Blake Lively try again          Joe Jonas has a new love in sight               Advertisement          News Stories        Three earthquakes in three days. More than coincidence?  
Christian Science Monitor
 Then Virginia's quake shook the US from South Carolina to New England...Colorado , Virginia , California : three earthquakes across the United States in three days. Aside from the apocalyptic questions some are raising, was this more than an earth-...    Fracking could have caused East Coast earthquake  
Russia Today
 In rural Pennsylvania, a process for extracting gas from shale known as fracking has released dangerous gases into a community's drinking water, forcing families to leave their native places. In rural Pennsylvania, a process for extracting gas from...    Penn State: Size of Tuesday's quake unusual for east coast  
Centre Daily Times
 50am on Aug 24, 2011; Modified: 11:52am on Aug 24, 2011 Earthquakes on the east coast are not unusual -- but the one that shook Centre County and the northeastern U.S. Tuesday was uncommonly strong, a Penn State geophysicist said in a news release...    Four aftershocks in wake of quake  
Boston Herald
 Updated 7 minutes ago Text size  Y esterday's Virginia earthquake produced four aftershocks, as seismologists scrambled to learn if the unusually large rumbles that rattled the eastern seaboard yesterday will happen again. The question is, if it can...    A weird day for earthquakes in the U.S., but that's, um, normal  
Los Angeles Times
 Of course, only a few of those were detectable by people, and only 12 were above a 3.0 magnitude. In other words, it was a typical seismologic day -- in terms of sheer numbers of tremors -- in the United States; what was slightly out of the ordinary...    5.9 Magnitude Quake Rocks Virginia  
PR Newswire
 Magnitude Quake Rocks Virginia     Find and compare historic earthquakes based on magnitude, death tolls and damage caused on FindTheBest's Earthquake Comparison. Calif. , Aug. 24, 2011 /PRNewswire/ -- The largest earthquake to hit Virginia in more...       Post a Comment Comments: 0                  Enter your comment below       Add Your Comment   Save Changes   Cancel                     Got a similar story?Add it to the network!   
Or add related content to this report  News Stories | Blogs | Images | Videos |
Comments   
Cell phones use report code: @10115472          Cartoons of The Day             Dick Cheneys book          Israeli Spring            Happy Birthday          High Holidays    See More Cartoons »       Most Viewed Reports     Labor Day Sales: What stores and offices open on Labor Day? By: richwebnews
| about 15 hours ago
      (Photos) 21-foot Crocodile Captured Alive in Southern Philippines  By: marvendumaguit
| about 10 hours ago
      We deliver: United States Postal Service Broke! By: DetroitReports
| about 6 hours ago
      Football Legend, Lee Roy Selmon, dead at 56, from complications after ... By: GeorgeMcGinn
| about 24 hours ago
      Palin raced undercover--is that how she runs all her races? By: StephEaly
| about 23 hours ago
      Pre-Match Prediction Football World Cup 2014 Indonesia vs Bahrain By: namakuimut
| about 22 hours ago
      It’s Not Easy Being Black By: katetier
| about 23 hours ago
      Is Journalism Dead? By: Sherrill_Fulghum
| about 23 hours ago
      Lack of Accountability In U.S. By: robertweller
| about 11 hours ago
      Argentina, Messi and Nigeria In Dhaka By: Baadshahmintu
| about 20 hours ago
        Most Commented Reports     It’s Not Easy Being Black By: katetier
| about 23 hours ago
      Palin raced undercover--is that how she runs all her races? By: StephEaly
| about 23 hours ago
      Pakistan beat China 4-1 in Asian Hockey Cup By: HumTum
| about 15 hours ago
      Al-Qaeda leader Younis Al Mauritani arrested By: HumTum
| about 12 hours ago
      UPDATE on Madonna lawsuit over Material Girl clothing line By: AmberCornelio
| about 21 hours ago
      Five killed, four injured in New Karachi By: Ammaduddin
| about 21 hours ago
      Football Legend, Lee Roy Selmon, dead at 56, from complications after ... By: GeorgeMcGinn
| about 24 hours ago
      China denies selling arms to Qaddafi By: crown62
| about 15 hours ago
      Lack of Accountability In U.S. By: robertweller
| about 11 hours ago
      WA man bitten in half by shark!!! By: AmberCornelio
| about 22 hours ago
              Mainstream News     News Stories: 6       Blog Posts: 0       Videos: 0       Images: 0       Comments: 0    0       SMS and MMS Your Voice to allvoices  If you want to add your voice and contribute to this existing news event, use the event code
(Event Code: @10115472), that you will find on each news event page, as the first word of the
SMS or MMS message followed by a space then add your contribution (text, image or video). For example:
@10115472 This is an amazing video of Greg Norman hitting a hole-in-one in Sydney, Australia.
The first word of the message should be @10115472 (event code), to make sure the system attaches
your voice to the right news event. Phone numbers to send SMS your voice are:
 International – (Please check the SMS coverage table)
+45 609 910280, +61 427 229537 or +44 780 0000352 United States SMS Short Code
VOICES (864237) For videos and images, use mms@allvoices.com or report@allvoices.com   To report news via SMS or MMS check out
the following link for instructions.    Close      [ Close Window ] Welcome to your news event page You have created the news event “Mapping Virginia Earthquake 2011 Locations, Tremor, Damages and Hazards” and it can be found at: http://www.allvoices.com/news/10115472-mapping-virginia-earthquake-2011-locations-tremor-damages-and-hazards.  
Please wait while we send your shared content 
Your news report has been shared successfully  Invite your friends     Share With: Enter email addresses separated by commas  Your Message: Take a look at my news report on allvoices.com!    Share   Close              Loading activation form...       Loading login form...       Loading sign up form...       Loading activation form...       Loading password form...       Loading new incentive enroll form...       Loading invite contacts form...       Invite your friends      Please enter an optional message below, check the friends you want to invite, hit "Send Invitation," and you're done!    Personal Message (optional): I've become a citizen journalist on Allvoices.com, the fastest growing grassroots news network. Sign up, become my fan and join me in changing the face of online news!      Select Friends Start Again  Select All/None                    Skip   Send Invitation   
Please wait while we finish your registration and invite your contacts...
            Loading thanks screen...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we create your account...       Wait while we load the booster form...             Connect      Help |
Login |
Join             All  |  Politics  |  Sports  |  Entertainment  |  Business  |  Science & Technology  |  Conflict & Tragedy  |  Odd  |  Your Story  |  Health  | More   Travel   Green   Humanitarian   Causes   Obituaries   Arts & Culture   Funny   Life Style   Spirituality & Religion   Education              There is no such location.              This beta report credibility rating is intended to help our community sort through uncensored citizen media reports. For more information, see the Report Credibility section in our FAQ  Sitemap   Site Links  Home Contributed Reports Mainstream News All News People Contributors Images Videos Partner News  Cartoons RSS Feeds Sitemap    Site Topics  All Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science & Technology Conflict & Tragedy Odd Your Story Health Travel Green Humanitarian Causes Obituaries Arts & Culture Funny Life Style Spirituality & Religion Education    Contributions  Report Your News Add your voice and contribute via your cellphone - check out how to Report News via Your Cellphone Blog Widget Widget for Blog Owner    Help and Accounts  Help    Administrative  Home About us Team Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us Press Partners Incentive Program Health Plan Syndication Program Blog     Use of this site is governed by our Terms of Use Agreement and Privacy Policy.© Allvoices, Inc 2008-2011. All rights reserved.   Please wait a moment while the tour loads...               