6 Strange Anomalies With The Virginia Earthquake | Pakalert Press


Pakalert Press
 


  
 
 



		Subscribe:Posts
Email alerts
Comments




Home
 
Activity 
Just Me
Friends
Groups
Links
Favorites



Members

Members List
My Friends
Requests



Groups

Groups Directory
Create Group
My Groups
Invities


About us
Activity
Contact us
Forums









 
 

 





Home
Featured

Global Crises

Illuminati Dajjal

Lists

New World Order

Project 2012

Star Wars

Strange

Survivalism

The Resistance

Trend Alerts

Unknown History

Videos

War of Terror

World Financial Crisis

World War 3




 

Project 2012




 
10 Years After 9/11, Is America A Better Place?

 



 
Lessons from the Zionist Attack on Libya

 



 
Video: The Coming Global Economic Meltdown

 



 
Tony Blair: A Study In Psychopathy

 



 
Israel most defensible country in the world by 2012?

 



 
Architectural and Engineering Experts Solve Mystery of WTC Destruction

 



 
Israel to hold special emergency drill simulating enemy strike on nuke reactors

 



 
5 Unexpected Places You Can Be Tracked With Facial Recognition Technology

 



 
France Warns Iranian Threat May Lead To Pre-Emptive Strike

 



 
Elenin – “Unnatural” = Richard Hoagland

 

Forums ActivityRe: Deja Vu all over again.. The Tuscon & Norway Massacres, JFK Dead!by: katsung47September 2, 2011, 05:05Re: Japan earthquake and HAARPby: katsung47September 2, 2011, 05:02Re: The coming nuke terror attack on USby: katsung47September 2, 2011, 04:59Re: Second Rise of Islamby: arifmian786August 29, 2011, 01:05Re: Moncler Giubbottiby: qiannianyixiaoAugust 23, 2011, 11:5954 Members of Congress, Obama, And Hillary ClintonTaking Money From Hamas!by: djosirisAugust 20, 2011, 02:19Libya - Psy-Ops And War Gamesby: jamieAugust 18, 2011, 20:10Re: New NASA Research Points to Possible HAARP Connection in Japan Earthquake, Tsunamiby: remnant47August 14, 2011, 11:19Max Keiser: WW3 Is On As Wall St. Banks Plunder Economy by: djosirisAugust 12, 2011, 23:09Obama readies citizen spies for actionby: djosirisAugust 12, 2011, 23:06Pakalert Network 
  
  
You Are Here: Home » Featured, Global Crises, Lists, Project 2012, Star Wars, Strange, Videos » 6 Strange Anomalies With The Virginia Earthquake

6 Strange Anomalies With The Virginia Earthquake
Posted on Pakalert on August 30, 2011 // 3 Comments
 



[Translate]















Tweet

Share




Eric Blair
Activist Post
My first thought upon hearing the news of the rare 5.9 magnitude earthquake in Virginia this week was that it was not a natural occurrence. After all, no one has ever felt or even heard of such a powerful temblor happening in this area in a lifetime. As is usual for my cynical instincts, I hoped that I was wrong. However, several anomalies indicate that something is not normal with the Virginia quake.
First, I spend a lot of time in the “Ring of Fire” zone and have experienced numerous earthquakes.  By no means does this make me an expert, nor scientifically qualified to analyze earthquakes.  But, as enthusiasts, we looked up every quake we felt over a five-year period — the size, epicenter location, depth, and so on, to get a general sense of placing how it “felt” relative to the official data.

I can categorically state that, of the dozen or so earthquakes that I’ve experienced, including a powerful 6.2, all of them started gently, none of them were over 50 miles away, all of them had depths of several kilometers, and the big ones seemed to have multiple aftershocks reported. Again, I say this as an observer, not as a scientist, and I’m only providing this background simply to qualify my immediate skepticism.

Furthermore, curiously, the “Great Virginia Quake of 2011,” unprecedented in size and scope, should have grabbed the media headlines and discussion for weeks, but Hurricane Irene has all but wiped the earthquake off the weather map.  Even as all the storm measurements for Irene show that it will likely be a minor nuisance, maybe some flooding and power outages, multiple states of emergency have been declared, mandatory mass evacuations ordered, and the media is all too eager to spread the panic.  You’d think the east coast of the United States was being invaded.  It feels like a distraction, or perhaps a large but manageable live drill of some kind to make heroes out of our politicians, and FEMA look like a successful agency.
If this manic and surreal coverage of Irene is a deliberate distraction, the anomalies regarding the recent earthquake may have provided sufficient motivation for doing so.  Not to discount other establishment catastrophes that they may want to distract from at this critical time — like the crumbling economy, record political disapproval, and the bungled invasion of Tripoli — but, if any discussion about the unusual nature of the earthquake was allowed one must ponder if some sort of manipulation was involved.  The establishment will not permit such talk, apparently; hence the rapid about-face on earthquake coverage.
Below are six abnormalities about the Virginia earthquake that should warrant further investigation:
Location: The location is the most obvious anomaly for such a powerful quake. Although the area of the U.S. where the earthquake initiated sits on the edge of an ancient tectonic plate called the Craton Plate, it is considered a relatively dormant or settled area.  In other words, it’s not a very active earthquake zone.  Therefore, any noticeable earthquake is unusual, let alone a 5.9 monster that was reportedly felt 500 miles away. Furthermore, if one is inclined to believe that earthquakes can be manipulated, the epicenter occurring close to Washington D.C. (with all its sensitive military and government infrastructure) raises some suspicions. Admittedly, that’s conjecture, but considering the following oddities it might be more believable by the end of the article.
Unusually Shallow Depth:  The initial hypocenter (depth) of the quake reported by the establishment media was, wait for it, wait for it, only 0.1 miles or about 528 feet (161 meters) deep. That’s right, AFP announced the depth with certainty, “The Pentagon, the US Capitol and monuments in the nation’s capital were all evacuated after the 5.9-magnitude quake, which was shallow with its epicenter only 0.1 miles underground.”  The depth was later adjusted to a more believable 3.7 miles (5.95 kilometers) beneath the surface. Still, shallow-focus quakes usually only occur in areas abundant in seismic activity, like the ring of fire. And the depths of those shallow-focus earthquakes are usually in the tens of kilometers deep.  The Earth’s crust in the Eastern U.S. where “the fault lines are more healed” is described by CBS News as “older and colder” than out West. Which, according to Wikipedia, means it should have been a deep-focus earthquake with a depth ranging from 300 to 700 kilometers.  Certainly not one barely below the Earth’s surface.
Odd Seismograph Reading:  A reporter from Press Core received an anonymous email from someone claiming to be in the U.S. Air Force that stated the Virginia earthquake “wasn’t a natural earthquake and not a HAARP earthquake.”  The reporter was instructed to find a seismograph of the Washington DC area earthquake and compare it to a past earthquakes and seismic readings of the allegedunderground nuclear test by North Korea that resulted in a 4.7 magnitude tremor at a depth of zero.






Seismograph of Virginia quake in green – Washington and Lee University (85 miles from epicenter)








Press Core writes, the green lines indicate the blunt tremor that was felt in Washington D.C. and the black lines are a transparent overlay of a seismograph from a pdf file from Virginia Division Mineral Resources on Earthquakes. That file describes a typical natural occurring earthquake as:
When a fault ruptures, energy is released in the form of seismic waves. The first waves to reach the earth’s surface are primary or ‘P’ waves (Figure 2). P waves are compressional waves that travel at a speed of about four miles per second near the surface – faster as depth increases. The next waves to reach the earth’s surface are secondary or ‘S’ waves. S waves are shear waves that move at a speed of about 1.5 miles per second. P and S waves are body waves that travel through the earth much like sonar waves travel through water. Surface waves, which are slower than S waves, travel along the surface of the earth much like waves at the surface of the ocean. S waves and surface waves cause the most destruction at the earth’s surface.
The article concludes; “What is missing from the seismograph for the Washington DC area 5.8 magnitude earthquake are the primary or ‘P’ waves. All earthquakes that are the direct result of fault rupture have these primary or ‘P’ waves. Nuclear detonations do not.”
Distance Felt: As my introduction stated, I’ve never “felt” an earthquake whose epicenter was farther than 50 miles away.  Of course, this doesn’t mean that it’s not possible, as clearly this was felt upwards of 500 miles from the epicenter.  The CBS article quoted above that referred to the crust as “older and colder” also uses that argument to explain why tremors were felt so far away: “The East is far less seismically active — but when earthquakes do hit, that hard ground is far more effective at conducting the seismic waves. When you hit it, it rings like a bell,” said Christopher Scholz a professor of geophysics at Columbia University’s Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory at Columbia University.”  This seems a bit contradictory given the shallow depth of the quake, but there may be some validity to the “bell” theory.  The fact remains, earthquakes whose effects travel long distances are uncommon, hence the reason for the CBS article about why the quake was so “widely felt.”
‘Remarkably Low’ Number of Aftershocks:  Amy Vaughan, a geophysicist with the USGS Earthquake Information Center in Colorado told CBS News that ”For the size earthquake that occurred, I think the number of aftershocks so far has been remarkably low.” Don Blakeman, another geophysicist at the Earthquake Information Center, added “Typically, the larger the quake, the longer and the greater extent of aftershocks. Shallow earthquakes like the one in Virginia also tend to generate numerous aftershocks.”  The lack of aftershocks led the USGS to report that the Virginia quake may be just a foreshock of something larger to come. A foreshock is an earthquake that occurs before a larger seismic event (the mainshock) and is related to it in both time and space.  I’m not sure what this means other than it’s just another abnormality about this quake.






Image source - Enterprise Mission



Instantaneously Knocked Irene Off Course: Kevin Hayden and Glenn Kreisberg reported ”Coincidentally, the time frame leading up to Virginia/DC/New York area experiencing freak seismic activity, Hurricane Irene begins to weaken and move off course, avoiding its initial path of Havanna, inland Florida, the Carolinas, and eventually, the Washington, DC area. The newly projected paths show that it may barely clip the eastern coast, if at all. Just as Ophelia did when it threatened the same region.”  Irene stalled and changed directions similar to Ophelia seen in the graphic provided.  Clearly, these types of drastic changes are not a natural path for hurricanes.
A few articles have speculated that HAARP earthquake weapons were to blame, in conjunction with manipulating hurricane Irene. Indeed, when one knows even the basic capabilities of HAARP, this does not seem too far-fetched.  Press Core seems to think the seismic data proves it was more similar to an underground nuclear detonation.  One thing is for sure, the mysterious characteristics of the Virginia quake seem to indicate that it was not a typical earthquake.

Comment on what you think about these strange anomalies, or please provide solid evidence to explain this unusual evidence.

Enter Your Mail Address

People who read this article also read:The New Era of “All Natural” False Flag DisastersAll The Proof In The World: HAARP Is Wrecking Havoc WorldwideHurricane Irene, Unusual Earthquakes, Unprecedented Tornadoes, Historic Flooding And Horrific Drought: Why Is All Of This Stuff Happening To America?Montauk Project: New Film Takes On Allegations Of Mind Control, Time Travel And Alien Encounters At Military BaseNew NASA Research Points To Possible HAARP Connection In Japan Earthquake, TsunamiOfficially Declared Nuclear NightmareIs The Number Of Earthquakes Increasing? Why The 5.8 Virginia Earthquake Might Just Be A Preview Of Things To ComeVideo: Tectonic Weaponry – How to make an EarthquakeAftermath: Population Zero – Full Documentary1 Million Dead in 30 SecondsVideo: Gunderson – Fukushima Radiation, Beef, And ‘Black Rain’Video: Radiation Coverups ConfirmedThe Perfect (Radiation) Storm is BrewingIs The Mainstream Media Covering Up The Truth At Los Alamos, Ft. Calhoun And Fukushima?Nuclear Flood Threat: 1100 troops, 25,000 Homes FloodedNew Madrid’s Giant Pipeline BombFukushima USA? Dangerous radioactive leaks and cracked foundations go unpunished at American nuclear power plants , PhotosVideo: Nuclear Holocaust Sweeping Across the Northern HemisphereUS Orders News Blackout Over Crippled Nebraska Nuclear PlantFukushima Radiation: A Soft-Kill Operation



Tags: America , Arabian Sea , Australia , birds , China , Christmas , cyber-attack , Disasters , earth , earthquake , Egypt , electromagnetic pulse , Electromagnetic Warfare , European Union , evidence , extraterrestrial , false flag , false flag operation , false flag terror , fire , Fish , Floods , food crisis , Gulf of Aden , HAARP , HAARP earthquake weapons , heavy rainfall , high definition pictures , Horus , hurricanes , In pictures , ionosphere , Iran , Japan , Japan Earthquake , kill switch , mainstream media , Masonic conspiracy , NASA , New World Order , nuclear weapons , Pakistan , Photo Gallery , photos , pics , pictures , PNAC , poisonous space clouds , Project 2012 , Quran and 2012 , RFID , Rothschild , Rothschilds , Russia , Secret Weapon , Somalia , Spiritual War , spirituality , Stargate , Strange Anomalies , Survival , Survival List , Survival Scenario , Survival Skills , Survivalism , survivalist , Ted Stevens , terrorism , Tesla Beam , Tesla Technology , Tsunami , tsunamis , Turkey , underground bunkers , United States , US military , USA , Venezuela , Video , Virginia Earthquake , Vortex , warships , Weather Catastrophe , Weather Modification , Weather War , Weather Wars , weather weapons , WikiLeaks , World Destruction , World War , World War 3 , World War III , Yemen , Zionist More...

 
 


Comments 

 
 



Name



Email



Website







Cancel reply 





 



 

marv.
September 1, 2011 at 3:15 am


Detention camps: My info is 800 now complete in USA. . . each 1,000 ( or families) =’s
800,000 . . written about by ‘Aid and Abet”,over 6 years past. On E.mail .. .showing two fields with plastic caskets (one esimated at 125,000 and the other at 350,ooo.  Each casket to hold hree bodies.!!!!  HAARP . . Alaska, Yes; Australia, yes; reported but unseen HAARP installations (7 total world wide); Russia; England, China  and USA.   Shown TV or e.mail underground explosions (quakes)12  in a string along a fault line . . . all at 9.3km depth.  nuff 4 now!!  You have agreat newsy show . . .congrats!!  Always ask: Who benefits . . . and.. . . .follow the money!!
.


[Translate]


Reply Link 





 

vljones
August 31, 2011 at 12:18 am


I believe they either using more technology to create earthquakes, all the digging they been doing is causing earthquakes, either/or it could be some nuclear blast or something. It be something worth investigating. Now the hurricane it could be cause by Haarp to make up a disaster.


[Translate]


Reply Link 





 

ilario
August 30, 2011 at 11:49 pm


I have no comments just curiosity


[Translate]


Reply Link 






  
 

Feedjit Live Traffic FeedCommunity Stats3492 members330 active members42 updates4 groupsForum 7401 blog commentsSubscribe Pakalert Press 


Follow @pakalert





Top News
Bad News from NASA: Proof That Comet Elenin Is Affecting Earth - Video posted on 20/05/2011 
Video: BBC Confirmed Nibiru Elenin In Our Solar System! posted on 30/08/2011 
Elenin - "Unnatural" = Richard Hoagland posted on 03/09/2011 
Officially Declared Nuclear Nightmare posted on 30/08/2011 
6 Strange Anomalies With The Virginia Earthquake posted on 30/08/2011 
Top US Space Expert Issues Catastrophic Warning On Comet Elenin  posted on 08/07/2011 
Comet Elenin Could Be Disintegrating posted on 30/08/2011 
Eleven Eleven Eleven posted on 30/08/2011 
5 Unexpected Places You Can Be Tracked With Facial Recognition Technology posted on 03/09/2011 
Quran and 2012: Evidence Hints At Event Types and Locations of 2012 Catastrophe posted on 11/09/2010 
The Forbidden Food You Should Never Stop Eating posted on 03/09/2011 
Video: Russia Reports Nuclear Explosions Hit Vast US Military Tunnel Network posted on 25/08/2011 
Coming Solar Storms Impact On Earth: Major NASA News Conference posted on 03/09/2011 
Insider Reveals 21st Century Illuminati Agenda posted on 23/12/2010 
France Warns Iranian Threat May Lead To Pre-Emptive Strike posted on 03/09/2011 
Hurricane Irene, Unusual Earthquakes, Unprecedented Tornadoes, Historic Flooding And Horrific Drought: Why Is All Of This Stuff Happening To America? posted on 29/08/2011 
"Dr. Who" Signals Plan to Destroy Israel posted on 29/08/2011 



  
 

Server 2
  				Recent News 
10 Years After 9/11, Is America A Better Place?
Lessons from the Zionist Attack on Libya
Video: The Coming Global Economic Meltdown
Tony Blair: A Study In Psychopathy
Israel most defensible country in the world by 2012?
Architectural and Engineering Experts Solve Mystery of WTC Destruction
Israel to hold special emergency drill simulating enemy strike on nuke reactors
5 Unexpected Places You Can Be Tracked With Facial Recognition Technology
France Warns Iranian Threat May Lead To Pre-Emptive Strike
Elenin – “Unnatural” = Richard Hoagland
Coming Solar Storms Impact On Earth: Major NASA News Conference
Dick Cheney, The Ultimate American Terrorist
The Forbidden Food You Should Never Stop Eating
Officially Declared Nuclear Nightmare
Video: BBC Confirmed Nibiru Elenin In Our Solar System!


Most Popular 
Bad News from NASA: Proof That Comet Elenin Is Affecting Earth - Video posted on 20/05/2011 
Pakistan Flood: HAARP Used in Pakistan? - Urgent posted on 05/08/2010 
Videos: Japan Earthquake and Tsunami Caused by HAARP? Evidence!  posted on 11/03/2011 
10 films the US Government would rather you not see posted on 30/08/2010 
US Order To Shutdown Millions Of Christian Websites Shocks World posted on 11/07/2011 
Top US Space Expert Issues Catastrophic Warning On Comet Elenin  posted on 08/07/2011 
Leaked Cable Reveals Obama Sent To “2012 ALICE Bunker” Due To Norway “Spiral”  posted on 07/12/2010 
2011 - The beginning of the End of America - Double Dip Recession turns into 10 year Depression  posted on 26/12/2010 
Huge ring appears over Australia, is HAARP involved? posted on 14/01/2011 
Quran and 2012: Evidence Hints At Event Types and Locations of 2012 Catastrophe posted on 11/09/2010 



Recent Commentsmaitry on Architectural and Engineering Experts Solve Mystery of WTC Destructionmaitry on Lessons from the Zionist Attack on Libyamaitry on 10 Years After 9/11, Is America A Better Place?Bob Spittler on 16 Statistics Which Prove That The American People Are Absolutely Seething With AngerFood Shortages, Skyrocketing Prices And What We Can Do About It « THE INTERNET POST on Food Shortages, Skyrocketing Prices And What We Can Do About ItMubashir Bhat on Israel most defensible country in the world by 2012?AHSAN SHAH on Iran says Israeli jets preparing to strikeGoneWithTheWind on The Forbidden Food You Should Never Stop EatingAbaddon on The Forbidden Food You Should Never Stop Eating5 Unexpected Places You Can Be Tracked With Facial Recognition Technology | CyberInterNetics2052CE on 5 Unexpected Places You Can Be Tracked With Facial Recognition TechnologyHot Topics9/11
Afghanistan
al-Qaeda
America
Barack Obama
China
CIA
Dajjal
Dajjal Illuminati
Doomsday
economic collapse
economic crisis
evidence
false flag
false flag operation
false flag terror
Illuminati Dajjal
India
Iran
Iraq
Israel
Masonic conspiracy
Middle East
Mossad
NATO
New World Order
Nuclear Attack
nuclear war
nuclear weapons
Pakistan
Project 2012
Russia
Survivalism
Symbolism
Taliban
terrorism
United States
USA
US military
Video
war on terror
world economy
World War 3
World War III
Zionist
 



	© 2011 Pakalert Press · Subscribe S2:PostsComments · 
	
 


 English
 Afrikaans
 العربية
 česky
 dansk
 Deutsch
 ελληνική
 español
 فارسی

 français
 עברית
 हिन्दी
 bahasa Indonesia
 italiano
 日本語
 한국어
 bahasa Melayu
 português

 русский
 ภาษาไทย
 Filipino
 Türkçe
 中文 (简体)
 中文 (繁體)
powered by


Pakalert PressLog InSign Up

Visit

Random Member
Random Group
















 --



 
cemcredmonteren posted an update:   6 hours, 3 minutes ago · View 
 
narkiertomas posted an update:   6 hours, 20 minutes ago · View 
 
schradleraym posted an update:   6 hours, 47 minutes ago · View 
 
rrellsidbe posted an update:   11 hours, 9 minutes ago · View 
 
ali khan became a registered member   11 hours, 57 minutes ago · View 
 
Pakalert wrote a new blog post: 10 Years After 9/11, Is America A Better Place?   13 hours, 25 minutes ago · View 
 
Pakalert wrote a new blog post: Lessons from the Zionist Attack on Libya   13 hours, 49 minutes ago · View 
 
Pakalert wrote a new blog post: Video: The Coming Global Economic Meltdown   13 hours, 59 minutes ago · View 
 
Pakalert wrote a new blog post: Tony Blair: A Study In Psychopathy   14 hours, 6 minutes ago · View 
 
Pakalert wrote a new blog post: Israel most defensible country in the world by 2012?    14 hours, 8 minutes ago · View 
 
Pakalert wrote a new blog post: Architectural and Engineering Experts Solve Mystery of WTC Destruction   14 hours, 9 minutes ago · View 
 
Pakalert wrote a new blog post: Israel to hold special emergency drill simulating enemy strike on nuke reactors   14 hours, 20 minutes ago · View 
 
Muhammad Ali Bozdar became a registered member   18 hours, 33 minutes ago · View 
 
dann rivera commented on the blog post Insider Exposes Famous Satanists   2 days, 11 hours ago · View 
 
zumra became a registered member   2 days, 11 hours ago · View 
 
dann rivera commented on the blog post Dick Cheney, The Ultimate American Terrorist   2 days, 11 hours ago · View 
 
dann rivera commented on the blog post The Forbidden Food You Should Never Stop Eating   2 days, 11 hours ago · View 
 
dann rivera commented on the blog post Elenin – “Unnatural” = Richard Hoagland   2 days, 12 hours ago · View 
 
dann rivera commented on the blog post France Warns Iranian Threat May Lead To Pre-Emptive Strike   2 days, 12 hours ago · View 
 
Pakalert wrote a new blog post: 5 Unexpected Places You Can Be Tracked With Facial Recognition Technology   2 days, 14 hours ago · View 




