EMSC - European-Mediterranean Seismological Centre 




Translation language :    Questionnaires resultView Testimonies on interactive maps
Witness location :  Louisa (United States) (4 km NW from epicenter)I have parrots and they seems to handle it well even though their cages rolled around the room.  Still finding fallen things.  Things in cabinets turned over, items on top of frig in floor, items on counters turned over, etc. The 4.2 aftershook was closer to me and seemed very strong also, but not near as long.Witness location :  Henrico (United States) (56 km SE from epicenter)I was at work on the 1st floor but the folks on the 3rd floor were alarmed. I just stood up to look outside because it sounded like something was going on at roof level. Then realized what it was.Witness location :  Chesterfield (United States) (81 km SE from epicenter)lasted over 3 minutesWitness location :   (United States) (102 km NW from epicenter)I was sound asleep on the couch and about five minutes before the quake hit my two wolf hybrids started going nuts and pawing at me and crying trying to get me to wake up. Once I was awake my alpha female grabbed me by the wrist and headed towards the back door. thinking she just wanted out i tried to leash her but she would let go until we were outside. Just as we were going out the back door it hit. It was very loud and I could hear it to the east of me in the Blue-Ridge mountains like a deep grown and then a rumble.Witness location :  Lorton (United States) (102 km NE from epicenter)Interesting Earthquake. My first ever.Witness location :  La Plata (United States) (106 km NE from epicenter)I never felt the after shake.Witness location :  McLean (United States) (125 km NE from epicenter)At first it was just shaking a little bit. I was at work and I thought it was the Goodyear shop below my office. Then the shaking got stronger and I knew what it was. After it was over I went outside and all the buildings around my office had a lot of people standing in front of them.Witness location :  Bethesda (United States) (134 km NE from epicenter)The loud noise and the loud boom that came and went with the earthquake really surprised me. I was in a similar magnitude quake in Southern Cali but there was no noise or boom unlike this oneWitness location :  North Bethesda (United States) (138 km NE from epicenter)Low rumble followed by shaking which gradually got stronger. Lasted about 10 seconds, maybe longerWitness location :  Rockville (United States) (140 km NE from epicenter)Phone service out(both land line and cellular).
Email and TV are OKWitness location :  Gaithersburg (United States) (144 km NE from epicenter)It started out lightly, and escalated quickly. We had an EQ in MD last summer that started with a "boom." This one felt like a huge construction vehicle, moving slowly towards the house, with out any preceding noises.Witness location :  Bowie (United States of America) (152 km NE from epicenter)i was leaning up against a car and when it happened it felt like someone was jumping up and down on a bumperWitness location :  Bowie (United States) (153 km NE from epicenter)Was initially seated working doing work on a personal computer.  First felt a mild rumble which I thought was a jet flying overhead or distant thunderstorm. Then the second wave kicked in and shook the house very violently.  Got up to look at the front yard and the vehicles were rocking back and forth from side to side.  This is the second noticeable earthquake I have experienced, the first being a quake of lower magnitude in San Diego, California in 1986. Witness location :   (United States) (164 km NE from epicenter)WE HAD NO CLUE WHAT WAS GOING ON!!!Witness location :  Frederick (United States) (165 km N from epicenter)Small aftershock felt here..Witness location :  Frederick (United States) (165 km N from epicenter)Started with a roll then a shock followed by 15 seconds of strong shaking followed by 30 seconds of slight shaking felt in furniture.Witness location :  Annapolis (United States) (169 km NE from epicenter)I am a massage therapist and I was in the middle of a session! Definitely a first for me...AND my client. We were both freaked out but after we calmed down, we continued on with the massage. That's one we won't forget...Witness location :  Glen Burnie (United States) (175 km NE from epicenter)Lasted about 30 seconds with strong shaking. Skewed pictures on the wall, knocked water out of the birdbath, toppled a few things. Felt no aftershocks.Witness location :  Rosedale (United States) (194 km NE from epicenter)I was standing in a operating room and was leaning on a counter when my legs were shaking. I thought I was about to faint and kept looking down at my legs til I stepped away from the counter. Then it got really strong and the tables and walls were shaking. It took a few seconds to realize it was a earthquake. Witness location :  Cumberland (United States) (196 km NW from epicenter)Felt at regional hospital.Witness location :  Cockeysville (United States) (201 km NE from epicenter)Very short duration of shaking.Witness location :  Virginia Beach (United States) (218 km SE from epicenter)If I'd known it was an earthquake I'd have paid attention.
Next time I won't miss a thing! I did hear a boom before the shaking began but that could've been one of the planes that practice maneuvers from nearby Oceana Naval Base.Witness location :  Harrington (United States) (233 km NE from epicenter)I was on the telephone with someone in Potomac MD, which is about a hundred miles away, from my home, when the person I was speaking to said "Oh my God, we're having an earthquake !" followed by the loss of the connection. Immediately after that, I felt the bed I was lying on swaying, and momentarily thought my dog was trying to climb onto the bed. I then realized that the dog was not in the room, and noticed that the whole room was swaying, so I went downstairs. My mother and stepfather were downstairs and had felt it as well, also having observed that some hanging things were moving throughout the living room so we exited the house and stood in the back yard. Outside,the water in the pool was churning and a small amount had splashed out. Afterwards, we spoke to our next door neighbors,one of whom had been outside and and one indoors during the episode. They said that they hadn't felt anything.Witness location :  Ocean City (United States) (256 km E from epicenter)Our hotel is on the board walk and my hotel was rocking and shaking. It felt like it was going to collapsWitness location :  Lancaster (United States) (269 km NE from epicenter)my 2nd floor apt. wooden floor ratfelled, felt like vibrationWitness location :  Mullica Hill (United States) (307 km NE from epicenter)The truck started moving back and forth. My brother's old cars fell of the shelf.Witness location :  Monroeville (United States) (311 km NW from epicenter)nearbye plaza was evacauated known by phone from friendWitness location :  Philadelphia (United States) (326 km NE from epicenter)In adjoining office buildings; one building felt it strongly the other didn't feel it at all. 
Very strong vibrations than earthquakes that I've felt closer to epicenters.  No rolling or up and down motion, just strong spatial (non-acoustic) vibration.Witness location :  Trenton (United States) (373 km NE from epicenter)Was in the Kitchen, everthing in the house was moving and swaying.  The china and decorations were rattiling and moving. Grabed child and ran out side Witness location :   (United States) (432 km NE from epicenter)Many of us became dizzy/nausated Witness location :  Newark (United States) (447 km NE from epicenter)I live on a 2 floor n everything on da house was shaking.Witness location :  Amityville (United States) (493 km NE from epicenter)I was very scared.Witness location :  Greer (United States) (510 km SW from epicenter)Just sitting quietly by the pool. In a chair that can that rock  a little. I wasn't, rocking but all of a sudden my bottom felt the ground shake.Witness location :  Knoxville (United States) (575 km SW from epicenter)I've been in an earthquake before so I know what it feels like.  The sofa was slightly shaking, but it was not scary.Witness location :  Hamden (United States) (576 km NE from epicenter)Felt like I was dizzy
Then felt swaying back and forth
Looked up and chandelier was swaying
By the time I figured it out
It was over (30 secs or so)
Was on phone with my daughter 10q minWitness location :  Dutton (Canada) (598 km NW from epicenter)I was always told, when things in the United States ---shake,rattle and roll,----hold on, it wlll eventually change your day in Canada. Witness location :  Groton (United States) (628 km NE from epicenter)It was bouncey.  My office chair was bouncing up and down like when a big bus goes past the building. I actually remember thinking at the time that I feel light-headed today. Now I know what it was!  Witness location :  Toronto (Canada) (639 km NW from epicenter)It was a very mild rolling motion that would have been easy to miss if you weren't sitting quietly at the time.Witness location :  Boston (United States) (762 km NE from epicenter)The furniture and equipment in my office creaked and groaned and I felt the room sway back a forth for a couple seconds.Witness location :  Nantucket (United States) (768 km NE from epicenter)I felt like my house was shaking, at first I thought that it was me shaking. It was little bit scary, I felt like dizzy.