Virginia Quake Raises More Questions about U.S. East Coast Infrastructure: Scientific American













					Subscribe & getSelections onEvolution FREE!
				

Subscribe »
Buy This Issue »
Subscribe to Digital »
Give a Gift »





Subscribe


News & Features


News
Features
Ask the Experts
Edit This
Extreme Tech
Fact or Fiction
In-Depth Reports
Mind Matters



Blogs


A Blog Around The Clock
Anecdotes from the Archive
@ScientificAmerican
Budding Scientist
Degrees of Freedom
The SA Incubator
The Network Central
Scientific American Observations
Solar at Home
Streams of Consciousness
From Our Network



Multimedia


Interactive Features
Video
Slide Shows
60-Second Science Podcast
60-Second Mind Podcast
60-Second Earth Podcast
60-Second Space Podcast
60-Second Health Podcast
60-Second Tech Podcast
Science Talk Podcast
Science Images




Education


Bring Science Home
1,000 Scientists in 1,000 Days
Education Resources




Citizen Science


Topics


Energy & Sustainability
Evolution
Health
Mind & Brain
Space
Technology
More Science
All topics



Magazines







							Subscribe

							Browse Archive


Scientific American
Inside this Issue

Subscribe
Features
Advances
50, 100, 150 Years Ago
Antigravity
Forum
Graphic Science
The Science Agenda
The Science of Health
Skeptic
TechnoFiles
Archive
Special Editions






Subscribe
Browse Archive


Scientific American MIND
Inside this Issue

Subscribe
Features
Head lines
Ask the Brains
Consciousness Redux
Facts & Fictions in Mental Health
Illusions
Mind in Pictures
MIND Perspectives
We're Only Human
Archive
Special Reports


















Follow SA
Email
RSS
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
iTunes


Log In or Register








Home »
Features »


Features |
					
					Technology

Tweet



Virginia Quake Raises More Questions about U.S. East Coast Infrastructure
The U.S. East Coast endures far fewer temblors than the west coast, but damage to dams on the "right coast" could be significant given the older architecture


							By  Michael Moyer

					 |
					August 24, 2011 |
8



Share
Email
Print








 
Image: Conowingo Dam, 16 October 1996, Copyright 1996 by Edward J. Clear/Wikimedia Commons


Supplemental Material




Overview
									An Essential Guide to the U.S. East Coast Earthquake
								




Video
									More Dangerous Than Nuclear Power: The Floods Caused by Aging Dams [Video]
								





Could it happen here? That was the big question in the U.S. in the hours and days after a magnitude 9.0 earthquake and resulting tsunami crippled the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant and destroyed the surrounding region. Most American worries focused on the integrity of our nation's rapidly aging nuclear power plants, many of which are still churning through uranium long past the reactors' original expected lifetimes. Fears were piqued again August 23 when a magnitude 5.8 temblor struck central Virginia, threatening power plants up and down the east coast. But a quieter danger lingers near many of our cities and towns. Tens of thousands of dams, many built before seismic engineering came of age, have the potential to release tsunami-like flash floods in the event of a seismic breach.
In 2009 the American Society of Civil Engineers released a survey of the state of infrastructure in the U.S. The group found that dams are, on average, in terrible disrepair. Of the more than 85,000 dams, more than 4,000 are unsafe or deficient, and nearly 1,800 of those are located where a breach would cause severe damage to life or property. With so many dams, it is hard to know where the gravest danger lies. The average budget for dam inspectors is distressingly low. For instance, Texas employs just seven inspectors to keep an eye on 7,400 dams, and in many states inspectors lack the authority to inspect private dams, including those built to hold back the chemical by-products of mining operations. A report by Switzerland's Paul Scherrer Institute estimates that dams are the most potentially hazardous source of energy. A catastrophe at an average dam has the potential to kill 11,000 people. The second-most-hazardous energy source? Nuclear.
Decades ago, engineers frequently built dams using a slurry of soil and water that would eventually settle into place. Unfortunately, an earthquake might liquefy the core of the dam. Although these dams were most often built in locations that were not thought to suffer from earthquakes (the Lower San Fernando Dam that nearly failed in a 1971 earthquake in the Los Angeles area is a notable exception), our knowledge of just where and when an earthquake may strike is no longer limited to the west coast. "New York City wasn't supposed to be seismic 20 or 30 years ago," says Tarek Abdoun, a civil engineer at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, "but the standard for what should require seismic loading has changed." In the past few decades, seismologists have discovered potentially serious fault lines everywhere from the Carolinas to Missouri.
Engineers have begun the process of retrofitting dams that suddenly are found to be located in earthquake-prone areas. But progress is slow and expensive. The Association of State Dam Safety Officials estimates that $50 billion would be needed to repair all the nation's faulty dams. Until that money comes through, fragile nuclear reactors should not be our only worry. 


Post a Comment | Read Comments (8)


Reprints and Permissions »



Tweet
























Articles You Might Also Like




			The East Coast Earthquake in Pictures [Slide Show]
							




								Quake Shakes U.S. Capital, Buildings Evacuated
							




								Strong U.S. East Coast Quake Highly Unusual - Scientist
							




								UPDATED: Earthquake Shakes U.S. East Coast
							




								Get your own earthquake sensor, and other temblor tips
							




								An Essential Guide to the U.S. East Coast Earthquake
							




								More Dangerous Than Nuclear Power: The Floods Caused by Aging Dams [Video]
							





8 Comments
Add Comment

View
						
Oldest to Newest
Newest to Oldest






1. lamorpa
07:57 AM 8/24/11

Damn

Reply  |
									Report Abuse  |
									Link to this






2. Ronnie
02:51 PM 8/24/11

A Earthquake was just reported in Peru, 6.8 in the northern country side. The Earthquakes we are seeing recently around the world are mechanical in nature and caused by alignments of planets or Comets like ELEnin. The East coast quake was predicted several weeks ago as large amounts of moisture covered the East weeks earlier. I also predicted the day before the East Coast quake that we would see a rise in the number of quakes in the U.S. and around the world as ELEnin readies to crosses directly in front of Earth on Sept. 9, 2011 at a distance of .223 au. Several Alignments have already taken place with ELEnin as it entered our solar system and is believed to be the cause of the Japan quake.The Hurricane Irene that is now barreling down on the east coast could facilitate yet another East Coast Quake. If the amount of rain exceeds 9 inches total a quake of 6.0 or larger could be expected within 10 days. The rebound in the Earth's crust will be accelerated by the moisture and will coincide with stress from ELEnin's crossing.We will see more quakes, I for one believe the government knows very well that the entire U.S. will have massive quakes through 2012 as planetary alignments are the normal.

Reply  |
									Report Abuse  |
									Link to this






3. wayspooled
04:01 PM 8/24/11

In Richmond, it took 45 mins for the local news to notice that the identified epicenter was 5 miles from the North Anna nuclear power station.  45 minutes of "some bricks fell over in Mineral, Bumpass, Cuckoo etc, tremors felt in NYC...".   They seemed to have no idea there was a nuclear power station up there.   After the locals finally remembered, CNN identified the epicenter as (incorrectly) 20 miles away.

Reply  |
									Report Abuse  |
									Link to this






4. robwal48
in reply to Ronnie
02:23 AM 8/25/11

Ronnie, just what are your credentials?

Reply  |
									Report Abuse  |
									Link to this






5. Ronnie
in reply to robwal48
08:58 AM 8/25/11

Using the science of Astrophotography on images of Fault lines has enabled enhanced visual images that would not have been seen using NASA's 3-D photography. I use a Color Algorithm, with capability photo- study ŞORIEş this process uses real-radar electron-resolve color. This is chiefly due to the finite capability of the Photo Imaging instruments which enable unlimited magnification of study subjects. A recently developed analytical method and process called, ORIE (Optical Remote Image Enhancement), enables visual observation and real time analysis of distance Cosmic Events including Earthly ones, using recorded or raw data (regardless of the source), e.g., photographs, micrographs, radiographs, aperture radar signals, sonograms and electron micrographs, but not limited to only these, better and deeper visual analytical capability along with heretofore absent ability to re solve minute cellular and molecular components and structures while revealing true color, cell component macro/micro structure, spatial relationships, fractalenhancement amplification and pixel recognition.The ORIE system identifies structure, elements and compounds contained in the subject of study. Study subjects contained in any photograph, radiograph, aperture radar /  Optical processes, - etc. Study subject exploits involving other means of imaging including a image of a Gamma Event, Comets, Planetary bodies and imaging involving e.g.,- x-ray, imaging from microscopes to micrographs from cellular atomic electron imaging levels the ORIE technologies may have in hypothetical, theoretical, experimental exploratory SpaceImaging, and in real time applications have an infinite range of applications in many and varied areas of Astrophysics imaginable research.ORIE has identified stress ridges and high pressure points of fault lines in thermo images of NASA photos with 6000 DPI. I am not an expert in this field but my research seems to have produced imagery that provides timely information, if this helps you fine, if not sorry no one can make everyone happy and I certainly am not trying to make everyone happy. 

Reply  |
									Report Abuse  |
									Link to this






6. PapaTango72
09:44 PM 8/26/11

Perhaps instead of "shovel-ready" projects fixing cracked sidewalks, some of the ARRA funds should have gone for studies such as these.  To think that the East Coast is not seismically active is foolish.  Too many dams and nuclear power plants built on the East Coast have been located with little regard to geologic history.  There are plenty of faults, and just because the East Coast isn't sitting on an interface of two plates doesn't mean that earthquakes don't happen here.

Reply  |
									Report Abuse  |
									Link to this






7. Ronnie
10:16 PM 8/26/11

I consider the East Coast the 3rd most dangerous place in the World for a disaster of biblical size in the next 16 months. The Shear number of nuclear power planets in the East and the Crusts Rock formation could create a deadly cocktail producing more damage than previously thought. I have said this several times before and it needs to be  repeated, the upcoming alignment of planetary bodies in our solar system over the next 16 months could stress plates and rebound areas and cause devastation beyond a humans mind to imagine. The old and unsafe nuclear power planets of the East Coast would suffer greatly in a 7.0 + magnitude quake, you will hear that there is very little chance of this, really? Irene is going to create massive amounts of rain in the East, will this lead to a Rebound quake in the Earth's Crust that has was compressed during the last Ice age? Time will tell but the older buildings pose a greater likely hood of being damaged even from a smalller quake.   

Reply  |
									Report Abuse  |
									Link to this






8. Ronnie
12:41 AM 8/27/11

RECENT STRONG EARTHQUAKES CAUSED BY ALIGNMENTS OF PLANETS AND COMET ELEnin.Seismicty magnification arises due to Mass Resonance during Earth's long alignments of celestial bodies are producing M6+ quakes.The cause is related to Tidally triggered resonance magnification mechanism for causality.During resonance the mantle of the Earth is stressed during astronomical alignments with objects in our solar system and roving bodies transversing it like ELEnin. In the case of the Washington Earthquake rock compression allowed shaking to be magnified across a large area called mass resonance energy release. ELEnin, Sun and Uranus had long alignments that maybe considered prime causes for recent mechanical oscillation.ELEnin seems to have a trajectory different from other Comets, most Comets have inclinations which are outside our solar system and do not align with planets.It seems relative that ELEnin's speed is nearly 10 times that of other Comets and it's plane of attack is nearly perfectly in line with Earth's orbit.If you consider everything in the Universe to be mechanical then tidal forces on the Crust would be effected by orbital alignments within the solar system.Ronald Nussbeck

Reply  |
									Report Abuse  |
									Link to this













Leave this field empty 
Add a Comment
You must log in or register as a ScientificAmerican.com member to submit a comment.










Advertisement
			


Follow Scientific American

Email
RSS
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
iTunes


Advertisement
			




Scientific American Newsletter
Get weekly coverage delivered to your inbox.







 







Latest Headlines


Electrified Bacterial Filaments Remove Uranium from Groundwater
News 2 hours ago


Human Ancestors Interbred with Related Species
News 2 hours ago | 1


Could Stem Cells Rescue an Endangered Species?
News 5 hours ago | 2


 
Most Read


Motion Sickness Treatments Make Waves
Features Sep 3, 2011 | 6


Your Brain in Love
Scientific American Magazine Feb 14, 2011 | 17


The Drone Wars: 9/11-Inspired Combat Leans Heavily on Robot Aircraft
Features Sep 2, 2011 | 10


 
Most Commented


The Human Cost of Energy
Scientific American Magazine Aug 31, 2011 | 41


Global Climate Worry Up Slightly Since 2009
Reuters Aug 28, 2011 | 42


Father Time: Children with Older Dads at Greater Risk for Mental Illness
Features Aug 29, 2011 | 22







Latest Posts by SA Editors


Labor Day Weekend at #SciAmBlogs
STAFFThe Network Central 2 hours ago 


Open Laboratory 2011 - submissions so far
STAFFThe Network Central 12 hours ago 


Galactic Challenge, Part II: The Richard Feynman Files
STAFFDegrees of Freedom Sep 4, 2011 


BIO101 - From One Cell To Two: Cell Division and DNA Replication
STAFFA Blog Around The Clock Sep 3, 2011 


Friday Festival at #SciAmBlogs
STAFFThe Network Central Sep 2, 2011 


 
Latest from SA Blog Network


Irene from space
Image of the Week 2 hours ago


MolBio carnival #14!
Lab Rat 3 hours ago


Population and Purpose: Where we use electricity
Plugged In 3 hours ago


North Pond: Calm before the storm
Expeditions 10 hours ago


Monday Music Video
PsiVid 12 hours ago







YES! Send me a free issue of Scientific American with no obligation to continue the subscription. If I like it, I will be billed for the one-year subscription.




		            Email Address
		        


		            Name
		        



		            Address 1
		        


		            Address 2
		        


		            City
		        




AK
AL
AR
AZ
CA
CO
CT
DE
FL
GA
HI
IA
ID
IL
IN
KS
KY
LA
MA
MD
ME
MI
MN
MO
MS
MT
NC
ND
NE
NH
NJ
NM
NV
NY
OH
OK
OR
PA
RI
SC
SD
TN
TX
UT
VA
VT
WA
WI
WV
WY

		                State
		            


		                Zip
		            






Advertisement
			


Science Jobs of the Week

Research fellow for CODIFI Study 
University of Leeds

Research Associate
UCL Institute of Ophthalmology

Editor, Scientific American
Scientific American

Vice President Marketing and Business Development
American Seafoods Group

Postdoctoral Associate
University of Minnesota

More jobs from Naturejobs.com »


Advertisement
			









Scientific American is a trademark of Scientific American, Inc., used with permission
					
					© 2011 Scientific American, a Division of Nature America, Inc.
All Rights Reserved.



Advertise
About Scientific American
Subscribe
Special Ad Sections
Press Room
Renew Your Subscription
Science Jobs
Site Map
Buy Back Issues
Partner Network
Terms of Use
Products & Services
International Editions
Privacy Policy
Subscriber Customer Service
Contact Us





Email this Article
Virginia Quake Raises More Questions about U.S. East Coast Infrastructure





					Your Email Address
					


					Recipient's Email Address (separate multiple addresses with a comma)
					


					Comment (optional)
					




X



Please Log In



					Username
					


					Password
					



				Forgot:
				Password



X




Report Abuse
Are you sure?



X




Share this Article
 
















 













RT @SciAm Virginia Quake Raises More Questions about U.S. East Coast Infrastructure




X



























