Is The Number Of Earthquakes Increasing? Why The 5.8 Virginia Earthquake Might Just Be A Preview Of Things To Come « CRISISBOOM









CRISISBOOM
The more you know, the better off you will be…







HomeJesus is Coming
The Basics of Salvation
About: Crisisboom
Comet Elenin
 



















Home
		 > Coming Events, Earthquake		 > Is The Number Of Earthquakes Increasing? Why The 5.8 Virginia Earthquake Might Just Be A Preview Of Things To Come	

Is The Number Of Earthquakes Increasing? Why The 5.8 Virginia Earthquake Might Just Be A Preview Of Things To Come

September 1, 2011
crisisboom Leave a comment
Go to comments



endoftheamericandream.com

Is the number of earthquakes increasing?  Are major earthquakes becoming more frequent?  In the aftermath of the magnitude-5.8 earthquake in Virginia, a whole lot of people are asking those questions.  All over the mainstream media, “experts” are coming on and assuring the public that all of this is “normal” and that the number of earthquakes is not actually increasing.  The USGS continues to insist that the frequency of major earthquakes has been “fairly constant” and that there is no reason for alarm.  But is that really the truth?  In this article, you will be presented with evidence that the number of earthquakes is definitely increasing.  Please approach the evidence with an open mind.  The truth is that this year we are on pace to have more than twice the number of major earthquakes than we did just 10 years ago.  The mainstream media is much more interested in keeping people calm than it is in telling them the truth.  Our planet is becoming increasingly unstable, and the magnitude-5.8 Virginia earthquake that we just witnessed might just be a preview of things to come.
The Virginia earthquake is already being called a “once a century” earthquake for the east coast. The earthquake was felt from Georgia all the way up to Ottawa, Canada.  It was felt as far west as Cleveland, Ohio.  It prompted the evacuation of congressional buildings and the Pentagon.  The earthquake actually cracked the Washington Monument and now it is closed indefinitely for repairs.
But that was not the only major seismic event in the U.S. that day.  A magnitude-5.3 earthquake rattled the area along the Colorado/New Mexico border.  That was the largest earthquake that region had seen in more than 40 years.
If these were isolated incidents, that would be one thing.  Unfortunately, major earthquakes are popping up all over the globe with alarming frequency.  In fact, a magnitude-7.0 earthquake just struck northern Peru.
But just because we have had some notable earthquakes this year does not mean that earthquakes are increasing in frequency.
What do the hard numbers tell us?
Well, when you take a look at the numbers it quickly becomes clear that the number of earthquakes is increasing.
Back in 2001, the world had 1361 earthquakes of magnitude-5.0 or greater.  This year, we are on pace to have over 2800.  In fact, the number of major earthquakes this year is going to be the highest number we have seen during this past decade by far.
So how do the “experts” explain this away?
The following is what the USGS has to say about why it seems that the number of earthquakes is increasing….
We continue to be asked by many people throughout the world if earthquakes are on the increase. Although it may seem that we are having more earthquakes, earthquakes of magnitude 7.0 or greater have remained fairly constant.
A partial explanation may lie in the fact that in the last twenty years, we have definitely had an increase in the number of earthquakes we have been able to locate each year. This is because of the tremendous increase in the number of seismograph stations in the world and the many improvements in global communications.
Are you buying that?
I’m not.
Yes, technology may enable us to detect more earthquakes than we did 50 or 100 years ago, but there has not been a quantum leap in earthquake detection technology during this past decade.
But what we have seen during this past decade is a definite rise in the number of major earthquakes.
The following chart of earthquakes magnitude-5.0 or greater over the last decade comes to us from americandailyherald.com….
Please keep in mind that this year (2011) we are on pace to have more than 2800 earthquakes of magnitude-5.0 or greater.  Once that number is included, the chart will look even more dramatic.
The following chart shows the number of earthquakes having a magnitude of 6.0 or greater since 1973.  This chart comes from dlindquist.com, and it includes data for this year.  As you can see, the number of magnitude-6.0 earthquakes for this year is “off the charts” because we are on pace for well over 200….

So after viewing these charts, how can anyone still deny that the number of major earthquakes is increasing?
But that is exactly what all of the “experts” on the mainstream news are going to keep on doing.
In the end, do your own research and find out for yourself.  Don’t let the television do your thinking for you.
The reality is that we live in very unstable times.  Unfortunately, the increase in the number of earthquakes appears to be part of a larger trend.  So far in 2011, natural disasters of all types seem to be increasing in frequency.
We all remember what happened earlier this year in Japan.  That was an event that was absolutely unprecedented in modern Japanese history.
But we have also seen a lot of other weird geological events around the globe so far this year.
For example, a few weeks ago a series of earthquakes caused an entire river to disappear in Costa Rica.
In addition, gigantic cracks and massive sinkholes have been appearing all over the earth.  Nobody is quite sure why this is happening.
There are all sorts of theories about why the planet seems to be becoming more unstable, but you don’t have to be a rocket scientist to figure out that this is not a good trend and that we should all be preparing for the worst.
In the United States, there is quite a bit of evidence that the New Madrid fault is starting to come to life.  If you live in the middle part of the country, you should really get educated about the history of the New Madrid fault and about what a major earthquake in that area could mean for you.
There is a whole lot to be concerned about on the west coast as well.  More earthquakes occur along the “Ring of Fire” than anywhere else, and there is a lot of evidence that we are starting to see the “Ring of Fire” become a lot more active.
So the next time an “expert” appears on television assuring you that earthquakes are not becoming more frequent and that you don’t have anything to be concerned about, don’t be so quick to believe that person.
The cold, hard reality of the matter is that the number of earthquakes is increasing and our planet is becoming increasingly unstable.
Yes, it is a bit frightening, but wouldn’t you rather know the truth?




								Eco World Content From Across The Internet.
							


								Featured on EcoPressed
							

								Mental Health and Climate Change
							


Rate this:

Share this Post!PrintStumbleUponRedditFacebookGoogle BUZZEmailDiggTwitterLike this:LikeBe the first to like this post. 


Categories: Coming Events, Earthquake
Tags: earthquakes, Virginia, Washington Monument, world events






Comments (2)
Trackbacks (0)
Leave a comment
Trackback








 

Sharon




				September 1, 2011 at 7:39 am					 | #1


Reply | 				Quote




Just got up. Missed some letters. Sorry.

 







 

Sharon




				September 1, 2011 at 7:38 am					 | #2


Reply | 				Quote




Great article. It hit you in the face so to speak. Thank Youl

 









					No trackbacks yet.				






Leave a Reply Cancel reply



Enter your comment here...





Guest
Log In
Log In
Log In









Email (required) (Not published)



Name (required)



Website











Please log in to WordPress.com to post a comment to your blog.













 You are commenting using your Twitter account. (Log Out)












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. (Log Out)




Connecting to %s



 Notify me of follow-up comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.







 



Germany introduces biometric cards for foreigners
9/11: Chemical Engineer Mark Basile Found Nanothermite in WTC Dust












RSS feed

Google
Youdao
Xian Guo
Zhua Xia
My Yahoo!
newsgator
Bloglines
iNezha



Twitter




RSS  
 
TagsAfrica
astronomy
Australia
China
commodities
Debt
Dollar
earth
earthquake
earthquakes
economy
Egypt
Europe
Federal Reserve
Floods
food
Food Crisis
food shortage
gold
government
India
inflation
Internet
Iran
Israel
Japan
Libya
middle east
military
NASA
nuclear weapons
Oil
Pakistan
precious metals
protests
Russia
Saudi Arabia
silver
sun
technology
Tsunami
Tunisia
unemployment
United States
US DollarArchives  Select Month  September 2011 
 August 2011 
 July 2011 
 June 2011 
 May 2011 
 April 2011 
 March 2011 
 February 2011 
 January 2011 
 December 2010 

Twitter Updates

 
September 2011


S
M
T
W
T
F
S




« Aug
 
 




 123


45678910


11121314151617


18192021222324


252627282930
 


Translate Translate this blog into different languages...


العربية


Български

中文（简体）

中文（繁體）

Hrvatski

Česky

Dansk

Nederlands

Suomi

Français

Deutsch

Ελληνική


हिन्दी


Italiano


日本語

한국어

Norsk

Polski

Português

Română


Русский


Español

Svenska

Search for:



  Recent Posts 
BRICS could block West’s neocolonial moves
9/4/2011 PROOF that the 7.0 magnitude earthquake solar flare 9/2/2011
Tonga, Panama earthquakes reported
Near-Earth Threats, NASA and Elenin – a Civilized Analysis
Huge ‘New Zealand swell’ hitting California
Texas: From droughts to extreme heat to blazing fires

Subscribe Today!

Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 66 other followers








Archives 
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010

  Spam Blocked 10,182 spam comments blocked byAkismet
 Category Cloudastronomy Big Brother Biometrics China Coming Events disease and pestilence Earth Earth changes Earthquake Economy Egypt Food Crisis GOLD GOVERNMENT Iran Japan Libya military Oil Protests Russia Silver Strange Events Sun Technology Uncategorized United States volcano Weather world   Top Posts & Pages Near-Earth Threats, NASA and Elenin – a Civilized AnalysisNASA Elenin 2011 Comet - Planetary Alignments with Comet Elenin Causing Big EarthquakesWikileaks: GMO conspiracy reaches highest levels of US GovernmentNASA's buzz about comet EleninWikileaks Discloses The Reason(s) Behind China's Shadow Gold Buying SpreeAll the volcano webcams of the world9/4/2011 PROOF that the 7.0 magnitude earthquake solar flare 9/2/2011 Comet EleninWhy This Gold Boom Will Be So Much Bigger Than The Last OneNuclear Reactor/ Weapon sites across the US  Authors 

  crisisboom


Links

Genesis Communications Network
Infowars
RFID (Radio Frequency IDentification) Privacy Issues and News
Startpage search engine
The Elevation Group
The truth on whats happening in the next 18 months


 Blog Stats 
310,809 hits

 







Top
WordPress

		Copyright © 2010-2011 CRISISBOOM	

Blog at WordPress.com. Theme: INove by NeoEase. 	


























Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			







