Cracks from Virginia earthquake found in Washington’s iconic obelisk   | The Extinction Protocol: 2012 and beyond






The Extinction Protocol: 2012 and beyond


2012 and Earthchanges News events



Skip to content
HomeLearn more: The Extinction Protocol book







← Projected path of Hurricane Irene for the northeast coast of U.S.
Torrential rains and flash floods kill 16 in Pakistan →


Cracks from Virginia earthquake found in Washington’s iconic obelisk

Posted on August 25, 2011 by The Extinction Protocol 


August 25, 2011 – WASHINGTON, DC. – An inspection of the Washington Monument Wednesday found more cracks in the pyramidion, the top section of structure, according to the National Parks Service. A crack 4 feet long and an inch wide was found during a secondary inspection Tuesday evening, so NPS decided to keep it closed indefinitely while damage is assessed. A preliminary inspection of the Washington Monument had found it to be structurally sound, according to the NPS. After more cracks were found Wednesday, NPS is bringing in two engineering firms with earthquake damage assessment expertise. A team from Wiss, Janney, Elstner Associates Inc. (WJE) will arrive Thursday to work with NPS structural engineers, historical architects and Tipping Mar Associates to assess the damage. “We are bringing in WJE because of their experience not only with seismic issues, but with historic structures,” said Robert A. Vogel, Superintendent of the National Mall and Memorial Parks. “The Washington Monument is one of America’s most important landmarks, and we will do whatever it takes to ensure that it is restored completely and correctly.” NPS is confident the monument will reopen, but it is too early to give an estimate, NPS spokesman Bill Line said. He emphasized customer safety. –NBC Washington
Share this:ShareStumbleUponRedditDiggLinkedInFacebookEmailLike this:Like3 bloggers like this post. 

						This entry was posted in Civilizations unraveling, Dark Ages, Earth Changes, Earth Watch, Land fissures, cracks, sinkholes, Seismic tremors. Bookmark the permalink.											


← Projected path of Hurricane Irene for the northeast coast of U.S.
Torrential rains and flash floods kill 16 in Pakistan →


24 Responses to Cracks from Virginia earthquake found in Washington’s iconic obelisk




 Steve Gandy says: 

			August 25, 2011 at 4:02 pm 
Isn’t this an Egyptian symbol having associations with “unmentionables” and pagan gods? This is only what I’ve heard on alternative news sites and forums, certainly I could be wrong.  But if true, I say let it continue to crack, lean and fall.


Reply 





 The Extinction Protocol says: 

			August 25, 2011 at 5:15 pm 
Yes, Steve…the oblesik is a pagan Sun phallic symbol that is both Egyptian and steeped in Masonic symbolism. There is even one in St. Peter’s square in the Vatican. The word oblesik comes from the Greek word Obelos or O belus, Belus was the Babylonian name for the Sun sun god worshipped since earliest antiquity, who was also known among the Gaelic and Celtic cultures as Bel. Fires, simulating the Sun, were held in his honor called the Fires of Beltane (Beltine).


Reply 





 goodbyemilkyway says: 

			August 25, 2011 at 6:19 pm 
huh……nice..phht!


Reply 





 TTB says: 

			August 25, 2011 at 8:17 pm 
Ba’al


Reply 





 nickk0 says: 

			August 26, 2011 at 11:49 am 
Ba’al  = Bel ?? 
That’s exactly what I was thinking, too …… 
- Nick












 dingdong says: 

			August 25, 2011 at 4:24 pm 
small amount of damage compared to what will likley happen when a huge/historic EQ hits.
God is about down with the nonesense down here.  He’s going to wrap it up.  Those who have perpetuated their vile, evil and corrupt spewage..AND THEY KNOW WHO THEY ARE, are going to witness the 7 years of tribulation, which is about to begin. 
GOD is about to call home The Church..
The Tribulation will begin.
The ac will be revealed and he deceive everyone in the very begining, he will then show his ugly vile self as he really is, he’ll force all to worship is vileness and take his mark. 
It’s pretty staright forward.


Reply 





 shivani says: 

			August 25, 2011 at 5:58 pm 
These were stollen from egypt and spread around the world to try and use their power. Yyes it was the Illuminati that took them for their magic powers…let their walls come tumblin down..


Reply 





 Dakota says: 

			August 25, 2011 at 7:10 pm 
shivani
In the end truth will prevail. I really have no idea as to why the powers that be think they could or can out wit the Creator God.  But then Satan is very persuasive especially to the weak and the greedy.


Reply 







 luisport says: 

			August 25, 2011 at 6:27 pm 
ENENEWS Energy News
Containment structure to be checked for possible quake damage at Virginia nuke plant — Reactors must attain http://bit.ly/q5NsH0 #Fukushima
há 2 minutos


Reply 





 Wiseguy says: 

			August 25, 2011 at 7:09 pm 
Imagine somebody frozen for years, awake today and you tell him about Japan, Tornadoes, Floods, Washington, Irene, etc… He would say right away: It’s the end of the world !!!
And yes it is…


Reply 





 Larry Lawman says: 

			August 25, 2011 at 8:01 pm 
An earthquake at or near the White House could not happeb at a better location.One hopes the next one will be an 8.9 on the Richter scale and rid us of the evil that lurks within the Washington location and demolishes and disintegrates the whole vicinity of the White House.
Best Wishes
Larry


Reply 





 RitaBook says: 

			August 25, 2011 at 8:49 pm 
I don’t think you want to wish that, Larry.  Too much at stake for all the other people living on the east coast.  Nuclear wake up call.
http://youtu.be/wFa48FPY0hw


Reply 







 Ellen B. says: 

			August 25, 2011 at 8:49 pm 


Reply 





 The Extinction Protocol says: 

			August 25, 2011 at 9:26 pm 
Done. Check your email and thanks for finding us. 
Best regards,
Alvin Conway


Reply 





 Julie says: 

			August 26, 2011 at 11:59 am 
Hi Alvin -
I don’t know where Ellen’s comment went – but I thought she said something about interviewing you for a radio broadcast.  I hope you let us know if you do that Alvin.  I would love to hear you speak.  With internet access, it is possible to get just about anything from anywhere.  Have a great day and thanks for all you do!   








 The Extinction Protocol says: 

			August 26, 2011 at 1:39 pm 
Thanks Julie. I took it down and yes, I’ll let you know if and when it materializes. Thanks for the support and I would love to hear you speak as well.
Alvin – Le protocole d’extinction
מאי ה ‘אפילו עליון, אלוהים שלנו להיות מהולל










 Larry Lawman says: 

			August 25, 2011 at 10:47 pm 
Hi there, no serious malice intended.I indeed wish no harm to the American people.The comment was ‘tongue in cheek’.Where is your sense of humor ???
The White House certainly needs to be blown up like they have destroyed other peoples lives.Think about that when you are in bed tonite.
America is taking over the Middle East piece meal.Iran will be next and the gates of hell will open.How naive can you get.
Best Wishes
Larry


Reply 





 Gordon says: 

			August 26, 2011 at 12:26 am 
WoW. Keep digging that hole .








 SC says: 

			August 27, 2011 at 3:52 am 
I knew where you were coming from Larry.












 Third Adam says: 

			August 25, 2011 at 10:14 pm 
Weather effected the Pope in his recent Youth Day speech, people could not hear him over the wind, and i also blew away the communion bread so no one could receive Christ. Now the Obelisk has been damaged badly. Is God giving people a last warning to put aside our idolatry, and return back to true worship of the Creator?


Reply 





 The Extinction Protocol says: 

			August 25, 2011 at 11:25 pm 
The plagues in Egypt were against the gods of Egypt and the religion of the empire that ruled the then known world was unable to spare the devastation of the mightest kingdom of antiquity. What is past is prologue..what lies before us is a repeat. Exodus 12:12


Reply 







 RitaBook says: 

			August 26, 2011 at 12:49 am 
And it will be months before there is any kind of transparancy, just as at Fukushima.
Guess they should have listened to the anti-nuke protestors that have been active since the 70′s.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anti-nuclear_movement


Reply 





 Desiree L. Rover says: 

			August 30, 2011 at 8:05 am 
Great, the first visible cracks in the Zionist/Masonic world tyranny.
I say, let’s all give it a lot more pushes!


Reply 





 RitaBook says: 

			August 31, 2011 at 12:00 am 
Was it the plan all the time to build nuclear plants on as many fault lines as possible?


Reply 




Leave a Reply Cancel reply



Enter your comment here...





Guest
Log In
Log In
Log In









Email (required) (Not published)



Name (required)



Website











Please log in to WordPress.com to post a comment to your blog.













 You are commenting using your Twitter account. (Log Out)












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. (Log Out)




Connecting to %s



 Notify me of follow-up comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.







 








Search for:



  Recent Posts 
Middle East powder keg: Senior Israeli General warns danger of regional war involving WMDs growing
6.6 magnitude earthquake strikes NW of Lake Toba super-volcano caldera
Somalia famine: UN warns of 750,000 deaths in coming months
European markets hammered as debt fears resurface in Eurozone
High winds and dry conditions sends Texas up in flames- 2 dead, 60 wildfires raging

Archives 
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010

Categories 
11:11 signature encoded

2012

Acquatic Ecosystem crash

Catastrophic Insurance losses mount

Celebrities and the Apocalypse

Civilizations unraveling

Climate unraveling

Cloudburst storms with flashflooding

Comets

Commentary

Dark Ages

Disappearing Lakes

Dust Storm

Earth Changes

Earth Watch

Earthquake Omens?

Economic upheaval, social unrest, terrorism

Environmental Threat

Extinction Protocol Exclusive Editorial

Extreme Weather Event

Famine Threat

Fireballs, Meteor or Asteroid

Food chain unraveling

Forecast book quotation

Future coding

High-risk potential hazard zone

Land fissures, cracks, sinkholes

Landslide & geological deformation

Lithosphere collapse & fisssure

Mass animal deaths

Monthly lead post

New World Order -Dystopia- War

Pack Animal Aggression

Pest Explosions

Pestilence Watch

Planetary Tremor Event

Potential Earthchange hotspot

Prophecies referenced

Seismic tremors

Signs of Magnetic Field weakening

Solar Event

Space Watch

Strange high tides & freak waves

Unprecedented Flooding

Unsolved Mystery

Ususual animal behavior for disaster

Volcanic Eruption

Volcano Watch

Wildfires


Email Subscription

Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 1,315 other followers









EP: Live Twitter Feed
Israeli General warns danger of regional war with WMDs growing: http://t.co/4YIrf15 -The Extinction Protocol...4 hours ago
6.6 magnitude earthquake strikes just NW of Lake Toba super-volcano caldera: http://t.co/NA1NKCZ -The Extinction Protocol...5 hours ago
UN warns famine could kill 750,000 in coming months in Somalia: http://t.co/02T0qRV -The Extinction Protocol...8 hours ago

 



The Extinction Protocol: 2012 and beyondThe world will change. Will you be ready?

 






					The Extinction Protocol: 2012 and beyond				


				Theme: Twenty Ten Blog at WordPress.com. 
			






















































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			






