
LIVE NOW! First Day Of Weeklong 9/11 Special! LISTEN AND CHAT NOW!
Huge Sale On Mountain House Food Combo! Preparedness Is Key!


  North Anna Nuclear Plant Forced To Vent Steam Following Power Failure From Virginia Earthquake : 









































Tuesday, September 6, 2011


News Feed
Comments




 










Home
Intel Soldiers

Forum
Research
Radio
About Us
Writers
Submit Tip/Intel/Docs
Donate


The Overwatch Report
Intel Hub Store

Preparedness
Protect Your Thyroid


Contact

DMCA/Copyright
Advertise With Us













Featured

Fighting Back/Good News

Food/GMO

Government – Laws – Politics

Gulf Oil Disaster

Health – Environment – Earth

News

International news

The Intel Hub Exclusive & Featured Articles

U.S. News



Satire/Comedy

Topics

Police State – Human Rights – Globalism

War – Terror – Black OPS – Economy









You are here: Home / News / U.S. News / North Anna Nuclear Plant Forced To Vent Steam Following Power Failure From Virginia Earthquake
North Anna Nuclear Plant Forced To Vent Steam Following Power Failure From Virginia Earthquake


 -->2 Comments








Tweet

The Intel Hub
 By Alexander Higgins
August 24, 2011
The North Anna nuclear power plant, hit by the Virginia Earthquake, was forced to release steam after losing electricity and a generator used to cool the plant failed.
Earlier today, two of the nuclear power plants at the epicenter of today’s 5.9 earthquake were taken offline due to a power outage.
The cooling functions at those plants were switched to run off emergency backup generators. 1 of the 4 generators failed within minutes despite an earlier NRC inspection and certification the generators were fit to use in the event of an emergency such as the one that happened today.

Backup Generator Cooling Nuclear Power Plant Shutdown By Virginia Quake Fails

The NRC is now reporting that one of the four back up generators powering the North Anna Nuclear Power Plant has failed after the 5.9 Virginia earthquake.

There has been a series of unusual events at nuclear power plants across the nation from North Carolin to Virgina following today’s 5.9 earthquake that struck with an epicenter near Mineral, Virginia’s North Anna nuclear power plant.
The earthquake caused power outages at the North Anna plant which forced workers to shutdown the reactors and switch to emergency backup generator’s to cool the nuclear fuel rods at the reactor.
While the NRC supposedly tested and certified the safety and functionality at the nuclear plant following the Fukushima nuclear meltdown, the NRC is now reporting that one of the backup generators at the plant failed just moments after being started.
As reported earlier, the media initially ignored reporting on the status of the North Anna nuclear power plant near the epicenter of today’s Virgina earthquake.
Media Silent On Fate Of Anna Nuclear Plant At Epicenter Of 5.9 Mineral Virginia Earthquake

A massive 5.9 earthquake, the largest ever in recorded history, which has been felt across the U.S. from Colorado To Massachusetts, has an epicenter near Mineral Virginia’s Anna Nuclear Power Plant.
Read more…

Soon after the media began reporting on the status of plant saying that the plants electrical power had been cut-off and the spent fuel pools at the reactors were being cooled by power supplied by emergency backup generators at the nuclear plant.
Are You Prepared? Nitro Pak Freeze Dry Food(Ad)
Two Nuclear Reactors Taken Offline, 9 Declare Unusual Events, After Virginia Earthquake

After raising the question as to why the media has been silent on the fate of the North Anna Virginia nuclear reactors we learn the earthquake has actually taken 9 nuclear plants offline.
Read more…
CNN is now reporting that, according the NRC one of the four emergency generators providing electricity to cool the reactors has failed. The generator failure even comes after the NRC reviewed them and said they were in ready working order following the nuclear meltdown at the Fukushima nuclear reactor in Japan.
[...]
Read The Rest
Now CNN reports that the nuclear power plant was forced to vent steam into the atmosphere, which I assume  was a step needed to relieve pressure inside the overheating reactor to prevent a hydrogen explosion like the ones that occurred at the Fukushima nuclear reactor.
The report on the release of steam from the North Anna nuclear plant oddly quotes  a county spokesperson instead of an official from the plant or an official from the NRC.
The earthquake triggered the automatic shutdown of a nuclear power plant less than 20 miles from the epicenter after it lost electricity. The quake signaled “unusual events” at 12 other nuclear facilities across the East Coast and Michigan, U.S. authorities reported.
Dominion Virginia Power said both reactors at its North Anna plant shut down after the first tremors. [Louisa County spokeswoman Amanda] Reidelbach  said the plant vented steam, but there was no release of radioactive material. Dan Stoddard, senior vice president of nuclear operations for Dominion, said there was no damage to the spent fuel pool.
Officials were restoring full power to the site, which was operating on diesel generators. Stoddard said that might happen by late Tuesday, but that was before the evening aftershock. The Nuclear Regulatory Commission was monitoring the plant.
[...]
Source: CNN
CNN did not report on why was the plant forced to release steam when NRC officials reported the plant was in stable condition and operating normally on the back up generators.
Energy News posted the following photo of the reactor venting steam.
Venting Of Steam From Anna Nuclear Reactor Credit - WAVY
ABC News also reports on the incident with an interview with famed nuclear physicist Michio Kaku:
Sawyer: [...] When you have to go to the backup to the backup that doesn’t sound good.
Michio Kaku, Physicist: Not good at all. We just dodged a bullet on this one. There are 4 backup pumps, one of them is out… if all four go out then you are on the road to a full scale meltdown [...]
The  EPA radnet radiation monitors in the area, which display radiation data controlled and supplied by the government, has not  shown any radiation spikes in the areas surrounding the epicenter of the earthquake.
The original  Mineral Virginia earthquake ha so far been followed by four aftershocks. Experts warn that aftershocks continued for weeks  following the 5.9 earthquake that hit nearby Blacksburg in 1897.
The following aftershocks have been officially reported by the USGS.
At 2:46:50 pm, a 2.8 magnitude aftershock was felt in Louisa. According to the USGS, the epicenter was five miles southwest of the Town of Mineral and approximately one mile from the center of the original earthquake (37.931°N, 77.935°W). Read the USGS report on the first aftershock here.
At 3:20:26 pm, a 2.2 magnitude aftershock was recorded approximately eight miles southwest of Mineral. Read the USGS report here.
At 8:04:36 pm, a 4.2 magnitude aftershock once again hit near the Town of Mineral. According to the USGS, the epicenter was approximately six miles south of Mineral along Route 522/Cross County Road (37.917°N, 77.891°W). You can find the USGS report on the strongest aftershock so far, here.
At 12:45:26 am Wednesday, a 3.4 magnitude aftershock was recorded seven miles south of Mineral (37.925°N, 77.994°W). It had a depth of three miles. Information on the fourth aftershock can be found here.






































 













Join The Exclusive Intel Soldier Mailing List And Weekly Newsletter







Email: 









Comments
2 Responses to “North Anna Nuclear Plant Forced To Vent Steam Following Power Failure From Virginia Earthquake”




 rbateman says: 

			August 24, 2011 at 4:18 AM 
Thank God that the NRC is monitoring the situation.  We wouldn’t want it’s record of prompt reporting and action tarnished.  Why, those lads just certified those backup generators right after Fukushima, and the steam is just a ho-hum loss of a few gallons of harmless water, right?
In case anyone hasn’t noticed, there’s a pattern here:
-NRC certification
-quake
-emergency shutdown
-backup failures
-harmless steam ventings
-confused reporting
-spent fuel rods problems

Reply 







Trackbacks
Check out what others are saying about this post...




8-24-2011 Virginia EQ Nuclear Event and more, and more and more… | packys News says: 

			August 24, 2011 at 7:25 PM 
[...] North Anna Nuclear Plant Forced To Vent Steam Following Power Failure From Virginia Earthquake http://theintelhub.com/2011/08/24/north-anna-nuclear-plant-forced-to-vent-ste&#8230; [...]

Reply 




Speak Your Mind

The views expressed in the comments published on theintelhub.com are those of the comment writers alone. They do not necessarily represent the views or opinions of theintelhub.com, our sponsors, or affiliates. The comments section is provided for the free exchange of ideas and opinions. With that being said, violent or racist comments will not be tolerated.

Sponsored Link: The FDA is moving to BAN most natural health supplements. – Get them while you still can! Wellness Resources – High Quality Nutritional Supplement

Sponsored Link: Global Sun Oven with Preparedness Package - Essential Preparedness Item! Prepare While You Still Can With The Global Sun Oven And Preparedness Package!


Sponsored Link: Make Money NOW With The Hottest Reseller Program Going!



Click here to cancel reply.



Name (required)

Mail (will not be published) (required)

Website












 




The Intel Solider Mailing List -- Daily Alerts 







Email: 








 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


 News Flash 
Intel Hub And Bob Tuskin Radio Show 9/11 Special ALL WEEK!
DHS: We Lost Our Own Explosives During Live Drill In Phoenix
Dutchsinse Youtube Account Shut Down
Labor Day 2011: What Are We Celebrating? The Lack Of Jobs In America?
Paragon Medical Flying the Flag of Communist China In Indiana
Central Banks, BIS and Goldman Sachs Coercion
Establishment Media Re-Brands Racist, Bloodthirsty Rebels as Freedom Fighters
Saudi Flag Flown Higher Than American Flag At Colorado Elementary School
WikiLeaks: Israel Warns Chemical Weapons Will Be Used Against Peaceful Palestine Protests
Cruise Missle Hits Pentagon Video Is At Least Partially Fake
IDF To Simulate Attack On Dimona Nuclear Reactor
Israel Vs Jews –  Learn The Difference


 

 

 

 


Intel Hub Featured Videos:





Intel Archive  Select Month  September 2011  (42)
 August 2011  (364)
 July 2011  (304)
 June 2011  (243)
 May 2011  (262)
 April 2011  (245)
 March 2011  (264)
 February 2011  (174)
 January 2011  (215)
 December 2010  (223)
 November 2010  (225)
 October 2010  (224)
 September 2010  (264)
 August 2010  (372)
 July 2010  (357)
 June 2010  (210)
 May 2010  (196)
 April 2010  (25)
 March 2010  (57)


 





 









Copyright © 2010-2011 &middotThe Intel Hub &middot All Rights Reserved




Advertising on The Intel Hub may not represent the views and opinions of this website and its contributors. No endorsement of products and services advertised is either expressed or implied unless otherwise noted, I.E articles and commericals that specifically state our endorsement.


Privacy Policy And DisclaimerDMCA/Copyright

End The Lie!

Health statements that appear on The Intel Hub have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. No products on The Intel Hub are intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease.


FAIR USE NOTICE. Many of the stories on this site contain copyrighted material whose use has not been specifically authorized by the copyright owner. We are making this material available in an effort to advance the understanding of environmental issues, human rights, economic and political democracy, and issues of social justice. We believe this constitutes a 'fair use' of the copyrighted material as provided for in Section 107 of the US Copyright Law which contains a list of the various purposes for which the reproduction of a particular work may be considered fair, such as criticism, comment, news reporting, teaching, scholarship, and research. If you wish to use such copyrighted material for purposes of your own that go beyond 'fair use'...you must obtain permission from the copyright owner.











