Earthquakes In Arkansas May Be Man-Made, Experts Warn | FoxNews.com





























Skip to main content: Latino/SBC/Fox Business (Home/Slideshow/Interactive: Fox News/SBC/Latino/Fox Business)
Skip to main content: Fox News/Fox Business (Article Page: Fox News/SBC/Latino/Fox Business)






Fox News Digital Network
  Fox News
  Fox Business
  Small Business Center
  Fox News Radio
  Fox News Latino
  Fox Nation
  Fox News Insider



Register
Login




Account


You're logged in as Account

Edit Profile
Logout








Wednesday, April 7, 2010 as of 11:14 AM ET


Search Site






On Air Now » Anchors and Reporters »
 






Home
Video
Politics
U.S.
Opinion
Entertainment
SciTech
Health
Travel
Leisure
World
Sports
On Air






Previous Slide Next Slide





Special Report
Weekdays 6p et



Fox Report
Weekdays 7p et



The O'Reilly Factor
Weekdays 8p et



Hannity
Weekdays 9p et



On The Record
Weekdays 10p et



America Live
Weekdays 1p et



America's News HQ
Weekends 12p et



America's Newsroom
Weekdays 9a et



The Cost of Freedom
Saturday 10a et



The Five
Weekdays 5p et



Fox & Friends
Weekdays 6a et



Fox News Sunday
Sunday 2p et



Fox News Watch
Saturday 2:30p et



Geraldo at Large
Weekends 10p et



Happening Now
Weekdays 11a et



Huckabee
Saturday 8p et



The Journal Editorial Report
Saturday 2p et



Justice with Judge Jeanine
Saturday 9p et



Red Eye w/ Gutfeld
Weekdays 3a et



Studio B
Weekdays 3p et



War Stories
Saturday 2a et



Your World Cavuto
Weekdays 4p et










Scitech Home
		  
		      
		          



Archaeology
		  
		      
		          



Dinosaurs
		  
		      
		          



Planet Earth
		  
		      
		          



Wild Nature
		  
		      
		          



Air & Space
		  
		      
		          



Science
		  
		      
		          



Tech
		  
		      
		          



Gadgets
		  
		      
		          



Military
		  
		      
		          



Leaders in Tech
		  
		      
		          

























	  	   Planet Earth
Earthquakes in Arkansas May Be Man-Made, Experts Warn


	 
	    
	   		By Alec Liu &  Jeremy A. Kaplan

Published March 01, 2011 | FoxNews.com

Print
Email
Share
Comments
Recommend
Tweet




USGS

The sudden swarm of earthquakes in Arkansas -- including the largest quake to hit the state in 35 years -- is very possibly an after effect of natural-gas drilling, experts warn.
At issue is a practice called hydraulic fracturing, or "fracking," in which water is injected into the ground at high pressure to fracture rock and release natural gas trapped within it.
Geologists don't believe the fracking itself is a problem. But Steve Horton, an earthquake specialist at the University of Memphis Center for Earthquake Research and Information (CERI), is worried by a correlation between the Arkansas earthquake swarm and a side effect of the drilling: the disposal of wastewater in injection wells.
"Ninety percent of these earthquakes that have happened since 2009 have been within 6 kilometers of these salt water disposal wells," he told FoxNews.com. The timing is too coincidental to ignore, Horton said.
Salt water is a common by-product of the fracking process, and the simplest solution is to inject the toxic wastewater back into the ground. But that can lubricate the surrounding rock, experts warn, possibly leading to quakes.
"They started doing these injection wells in the area that we're talking about in April of 2009. Since that time, there has been an increase in the rate of seismicity," Horton told FoxNews.com. "The increase in the rate of activity we've seen is temporally associated with the use of these wells to dispose of fluids in the subsurface."
Hanan Mahdi, a seismologist at the University of Arkansas, noted a similar connection in an interview with the International Business Times. She speculated that there could be two kinds of seismic activity in the area -- one natural, the other caused by pumping salt water into the ground.
"People say 'well, there were earthquakes here before the natural gas companies started, why should it be different now?'" Mahdi said. "Really, it could be both. We need to study this more and get a better picture of the geology here."
Scientists are slow to draw conclusions on any subject, and despite years of speculation, there is still little consensus about whether the practice is contributing to the quakes.
In 2009, the small town of Cleburne, Texas, experienced the first recorded earthquake in this Texas town's 140-year history, quickly followed by another four shortly afterwards. Was natural gas drilling -- which began in earnest in 2001 and brought great prosperity to Cleburne and other towns across North Texas -- causing the quakes?
"I think John Q. Public thinks there is a correlation with drilling," Mayor Ted Reynolds said. "We haven't had a quake in recorded history, and all the sudden you drill and there are earthquakes."
Horton also pointed to quakes in West Virginia, noting the same pattern of unusual seismic activity where previously there had been none.
"That isn't a place where you usually have earthquakes," he told FoxNews.com. When the West Virginia Oil and Gas Commission forced the disposal companies to cut back on their injection rate and pressure, the professor said, the earthquakes there seem to have dissipated.
While the debate continues, the Arkansas Oil & Gas Commission has imposed an emergency moratorium on the drilling of new injection wells in the area. Wells that were active before the moratorium, which was passed in December, can remain in operation, however.
According to a list published on the commission's website, there are currently 412 companies connected to the oil and gas industry in the state. But there are three companies digging for gas using seven active disposal wells in the moratorium area -- three commercial and four non-commercial, Shane Khoury, deputy director and general counsel for the commission, told FoxNews.com.
Southwestern Energy, which announced production in 2008 of more than 500 million cubic feet of natural gas per day from the state's Fayetteville Shale, and Chesapeake Energy, operate the non-commercial wells. Calls and e-mails to both companies were not immediately returned.
XTO, the third company, was recently purchased by Exxon, Khoury said. Clarita Operating and Deep-Six Water Disposal Services operate for-profit wastewater disposal wells in the area as well.
Some scientists remain unconvinced of the connection between the wells and the seismic activity, such as Berkeley Professor Chi-Yuen Wang whose research interests include the interaction of water and earthquakes.
"More detailed study is needed before one can clearly assess if salt water injection may be partly responsible for the earthquakes," he told FoxNews.com.
Some facts are clear, however: Seismic activity in Arkansas does seem to be increasing lately, lending support to the theory that drilling there is having a destabilizing effect.
Scott Ausbrooks, a seismologist with the Arkansas Geological Survey, said Sunday's record quake was at the "max end" of what scientists expect to happen, basing that judgment on this swarm and others in the past. It's possible that a quake ranging from magnitude 5.0 to 5.5 could occur, but anything greater than that is highly unlikely, he said.
The central Arkansas town of Greenbrier had been plagued for months by hundreds of small earthquakes, and after being woken up by the largest quake to hit the state in 35 years, residents said Monday they're unsettled by the increasing severity and lack of warning.
The U.S. Geological Survey recorded the 4.7-magnitude quake at 11 p.m. Sunday, centered just northeast of Greenbrier, about 40 miles north of Little Rock. It was the largest of more than 800 quakes to strike the area since September in what is now being called the Guy-Greenbrier earthquake swarm.
Nearly two dozen small quakes have been recorded in Arkansas in a single day.
The Associated Press contributed to this story.

Related Stories
Are Arkansas Quakes Manmade? Business Halts as Scientists Decide
Amid Earthquake Concerns, Arkansas May Close Drilling Wells
Swarm of Unexplained Earthquake Strikes Arkansas




Print
Email
Share
Comments
Recommend
Tweet




View Article



Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.

You must login to comment.

View Article


















Advertisement






 FOLLOW FOX NEWS SCITECH 











Business Technology



Toshiba Reportedly To Buy 20% Of Westinghouse
		  
		      
		  
		


Push For Big Patent Holdings Brews In Tech Sector
		  
		      
		  
		









Customers, Investors Losing Faith in H-P
		      
		          
		              


Hewlett-Packard facing customer uncertainty






Spotify Turns Up the Music in U.S.
		      
		          
		              


Spotify launched in U.S. this summer




More ›










Trending in SciTech


1

San Francisco Police Help Search for Lost iPhone
		      
		          
		      
		  


2

Gawker and 7 Other Formerly Popular Sites That Are Dead or Dying
		      
		          
		      
		  


3

2,000-Year-Old Biblical Burial Box Reveals Clue About Death of Jesus
		      
		          
		      
		  


4

First Photo of Sick Steve Jobs Appears Online
		      
		          
		      
		  


5

New Stealth Boat Glides Over Gas Layer
		      
		          
		      
		  





See all trends






Leaders in Tech



Apple Reportedly Loses Another Unreleased iPhone Prototype
		  
		      
		  
		


First Photo of Sick Steve Jobs Appears Online
		  
		      
		  
		









The Future of Apple
		      
		          
		              


What will Apple do without Steve Jobs?






Steve Jobs Resigns as Apple CEO
		      
		          
		              


Tim Cook named new CEO



More ›


































New York Times' magic mirror helps you get dressed, puts the 'wall' in 'paywall' (video)


Soulo karaoke mic for iPad coming to a thin partition wall near you


Amazon CEO's flying water tank crashes, leaves dent in his space travel dream


Must See HDTV (September 5th - 11th)


Nokia N9 coming soon to Mexico, passport-totin' San Diegans


















See-Through Mouse Brains Created; May Aid Medical Scans


Space Pictures This Week: Sun Halo, Saturn Crater, More


Pictures: "Walking" Fish a Model of Evolution in Action


Pictures We Love: Best of August


New Hubble Videos Show Star Jets in Action—A First


















Sony 3D Head Mounted Display


Audeze LCD-2 Headphones


Fujifilm FinePix X10 Camera


Brennwagen Grills


Sony Reader Wi-Fi

















Toshiba Reportedly To Buy 20% Of Westinghouse
		  
		      
		  
		


Telecom Italia Denies Plans To Sell Shares In Brazil Unit
		  
		      
		  
		


Hungary Power Wholesaler To Take Slice Of Telecom Market
		  
		      
		  
		


Tata Consultancy Services Gets Order From Westpac Life
		  
		      
		  
		


TeliaSonera CEO Lars Nyberg Joins Board Of GSMA
		  
		      
		  
		

















One Small Business Could Win Big at Atlanta Motor Speedway


How  We're Using Social Media to Expand the Brand


Is Your Data Safe from a Natural Disaster?


Tweet Business of the Day: Handy's Lunch


August's Small Business Monthly News


















UN Declares Famine in New Somalia Region


Texas Wildfire Destroys Hundreds of Homes


Green Cremation Offers Clean Departure


What Can We Do About the Space Junk Problem?


'Happy Feet' the Penguin Swims to Freedom


















Amazon partners with 7-11 for in store pick ups


Stem cell technology may help save endangered species


Ford Evos concept car


China’s Baidu to launch Android-based mobile OS


Netflix launches in Brazil, 43 more countries to follow













Sections



Home
Video
Politics
U.S.
Opinion
Entertainment
SciTech
Health
Travel
Leisure
World
Sports
Weather







Shows



America Live
America's News HQ
America's Newsroom
Cavuto
Fox News Sunday
Fox & Friends
Fox & Friends Weekend
Fox News Watch
Fox Report
Geraldo at Large
Greta
Hannity







 



Happening Now
Huckabee
Justice with Judge Jeanine
Red Eye w/ Gutfeld
Special Report
Specials
Studio B
The Cost of Freedom
The Five
The Journal Editorial Report
The O' Reilly Factor
War Stories







Tools



uReport
Newsletters & Alerts
Blogs
Mobile
Podcasts
Radio
Fox News Store
Apps & Downloads







About



Careers
Internships - FNCU
Fox Around the World
Advertise With Us
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy (Updated!)
Ad Choices
Contact Us
Email Newsroom
FAQ
Press







Follow




  Facebook


  Twitter


  YouTube


  RSS


  Newsletters












This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.	©2011 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes.








