5.9 earthquake hits Virginia, felt across East Coast, nuclear plant shut down - UPI.com













Mobile UPI  |  
				About UPI  |  
				UPI en Español  |  
				UPI Arabic  |  
				UPIU  |  
				My Account



Search:



Articles
Photos



Go













 





Home




Top News

U.S. News
World News
Local News
Special Reports
Analysis
News Photos
Audio Archives


Entertainment

Movies
Music
TV
Entertainment Photos
Broadway News


Odd News

Horoscope
Almanac
Best of Odd News


Business

Energy Resources
Security Industry
Crude Oil Report Analysis: Economic Outlook
Consumer Corner


Sports

Football
Baseball
Basketball
Tennis
Golf
Sports Photos


Science
Health

Health Care Reform
Pet Parade


Real Estate

Home Value
Find a Home
Find a Realtor


Photos

News Photos
Features
Entertainment
Sports
Photos of the Day
Photos of the Week
Archives


Analysis

Commentary: Arnaud De Borchgrave
Walker's World
Outside View


Deals







EU seeking unified Palestine policy
•
Double black holes discovered
•
Lamebook vs. Facebook
•
Storms in the Gulf








			You are here: 
			Home
 / 
				Top News			 / U.S. News			/ Va. quake rattles Eastern Seaboard 


View archive | RSS Feed


Receive Free UPI Newsletter

U.S. News



Va. quake rattles Eastern Seaboard

        		Published: Aug. 23, 2011 at 9:15 PM 

Comments 
Email
Print
Listen

Tweet









Slideshow


1 of 5
 



				People evacuate buildings on Broadway in New York City after a magnitude 5.9 earthquake strikes states on the east coast of the United States on August 23, 2011.       UPI/John Angelillo  








				Courtesy of the U.S. Geological Survey.  









Related Stories

6.5 magnitude earthquake jolts Japan
6.1 quake shakes Aleutian Islands
Moderate quake strikes Tokyo area



Advertisement

RICHMOND, Va., Aug. 23 (UPI) -- An earthquake rattled Northern Virginia Tuesday, briefly causing a power shutdown at a nuclear plant and emptying the White House in nearby Washington.
The 5.8-magnitude quake was the strongest in Virginia in more than a century, and shook cities all along the Eastern Seaboard of the United States. U.S. emergency officials said there were no reports of major damage, but cellphone usage was congested and the public was asked to use e-mail instead.
The White House said President Barack Obama, on vacation in Martha's Vineyard off Massachusetts, held a conference call with Cabinet secretaries and advisers "to discuss the earthquake and the status of critical infrastructure."
"The president was told that there are no initial reports of major infrastructure damage, including at airports and nuclear facilities and that there were currently no requests for assistance," the White House said.
The central tower of the National Cathedral, the highest elevation in Washington, sustained damage to three of its four spires, The Washington Post reported. Some animals at the National Zoo, evidently sensing the quake before it hit, seemed to call out warnings, the newspaper said.
The National Park Police closed several monuments -- including the Washington Monument, Lincoln Memorial and Jefferson Memorial -- for inspection.
The Pentagon, the world's largest office building, was partially evacuated after its foundation was shaken by the earthquake. Employees were permitted to return to work shortly after 2 p.m., the Post reported.
The U.S. Geological Survey, headquartered for the East in nearby Reston, Va., said the epicenter of the quake was 34 miles northwest of Richmond, Va., and 87 miles southwest of Washington.
The quake struck at 1:51 p.m. at a depth of 3.7 miles.
The Richmond Times-Dispatch reported the quake was felt in Washington, New York and North Carolina. The newspaper said buildings swayed, and damage reports had begun to trickle in.
There were no immediate reports of injuries.
The Times-Dispatch said the epicenter was not far from Dominion Virginia Power's North Anna nuclear plant in Louisa County. The quake knocked out power, but the utility said it had manually shut down both nuclear units without incident.
"We did lose on-site power, but all the diesel generators are up and running," Dominion spokesman Richard Zuercher told the newspaper 30 minutes after the quake. "Everything appears to be operating just fine."
In Washington, the Federal Emergency Management Agency issued a statement saying it was closely monitoring the situation.
"Though there are no early reports of major damage or requests for assistance at this time, preliminary damage assessments are currently taking place in all affected states and we will continue to work closely with their emergency management officials," the statement said. 
"Due to overload of cellphone usage, there are reports of cellphone congestion," the statement added. "We request that members of the public use e-mail or text messages if possible to communicate for the next few hours, except in cases of emergency, so that emergency officials can continue to receive and respond to urgent calls."
Though Amtrak train service along the Northeast Corridor north of Baltimore to Boston -- including Acela Express, Northeast Regional, Keystone Service and Springfield Shuttle -- was operating at normal speed, service from Baltimore to Washington and points south was operating at reduced speed as railroad infrastructure was inspected.
Passengers should expect delays through the evening, Amtrak said. 
The streets of downtown Washington were filled with thousands of people as buildings from the Capitol to the White House were evacuated, The New York Times reported.
Pennsylvania Avenue from Capitol Hill to the White House was filled with evacuated workers and tourists, none showing panic, the Times said.
Several buildings in New York City were evacuated, and the tremors were reported on Twitter from Martha's Vineyard, Pittsburgh and Milwaukee.
Four miles from the quake's epicenter, residents of Mineral, Va., reported extensive damage to items inside homes, the Times said. Mineral has about 500 people.
The tremors were also felt in Boston. John D. Tuerck told the Times he felt "a discernible swaying on the 18th floor" of his office tower -- "Not something one expects here, for sure." 
In Rockville, Md., 10 miles north of Washington, the quake was felt for 20-30 seconds. It started slowly but built into an event that shook houses. One man said he could see the windows shake on neighbors' houses.
Lea Cook was on the telephone in her fifth-floor office in Upper St. Clair, south of Pittsburgh, when the building started to shake. 
"My heart stopped," she said. "I flew down five flights of stairs to get outside." 
UPI's Gerry Harrington said he was in a Panera Bread restaurant in Kingston, N.Y., about 90 miles north of New York City when he "realized the table was rocking and the floor was undulating. I didn't know what to make of it at first. I looked around and saw the restaurant's hanging lights swinging. I quickly got up and left the restaurant, still not sure what was going on but thinking parts of the building might collapse. I asked people eating outside if they felt the Earth move and they said yes. The whole thing was a very strange, disorienting experience."
The quake stopped a tennis event in New Haven, Conn., and shook the field during an afternoon baseball game between the Mariners and Indians in Cleveland.
Play at the New Haven Open on the campus of Yale University was stopped after the shock of the earthquake shook the stadium. The building was also evacuated and matches resumed after a about three hours
The Virginia quake followed an 5.2-magnitude quake in Colorado Monday night. The quake struck at 2.5 miles depth, about 180 miles south of Denver and was the strongest in the area in more than 40 years. 



		© 2011 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Any reproduction, republication, redistribution and/or modification of any UPI content is expressly prohibited without UPI's prior written consent.
Order reprints





Join the conversation














 



News Photos - Slideshows

Photos of the Day
Week in Photos
News
Entertainment
Sports
Features
Archives
 2010: Year in Review












Additional U.S. News Stories



Top News


Hurricane Katia becomes a Category 3 storm
MIAMI, Sept. 5 (UPI) -- 
			Hurricane Katia intensified Monday afternoon, developing a large eye as it reached Category 3 strength out in the open Atlantic Ocean, U.S. forecasters said.
		
Postal Service could shut down by winter
Wildlife photographer admits faking photos
Perry cancels S.C. stump; returns to Texas
GOP presidential tilt may be clearer soon


Entertainment News


MDA telethon brings in $61.5 million
LAS VEGAS, Sept. 5 (UPI) -- 
			The 2011 Muscular Dystrophy Association telethon, broadcast from Las Vegas, raised $61.5 million to fight the disease, the group said in a release Monday.
		
My Chemical Romance sacks drummer for theft
Burning Man temple burned to end festival
'Glee' star Cheyenne Jackson tied the knot
Eddie Murphy may host 2012 Oscars




Business News


Big losses Monday in European markets
DUBLIN, Ireland, Sept. 5 (UPI) -- 
			European markets were sharply lower Monday amid concern for the health of banks and doubt about governments' ability to address the problem, analysts said.
		
UPI NewsTrack Business
More workers unhappy with health benefits
Toyota to make hybrid parts in China
IMF head: Abandon austerity for stimulus


Local News

Rex Grossman wins Redskins QB job over John Beck
Antron Brown wins US Nationals, beating Del Worsham in Top Fuel final
Labor Day Brings Closings, Modified Schedules
Film Notes From Bumbershoot: More Cupid Attacks and Tasveer Presents
Mike Shanahan firms his stamp on the Redskins roster






 


UPI News Photos

U.S. Open 2011



The tenth anniversary of 9/11



General Petraeus retires from military service



Eid al-Fitr celebrations



Libyan Rebels take control of Tripoli





Most Popular



1.
Hugh Laurie talks 'House'


2.
Why drunken people do embarrassing things


3.
Officials: Boy Scout has bubonic plague


4.
Exercise works as second depression drug


5.
Higgs boson may be found by end of year





Stories
Photos
People
Comments















sign up to receive our daily newsletter
 
 



Featured Photos


1 of 15
 






View Caption
 Enlarge Photo



			Safety netting is seen installed over the nave of the National Cathedral as a safety precaution following the 5.8-magnitude earthquake that struck the east coast last week, in Washington on September 1, 2011. The nets will remain in place until repairs are completed to the Cathedral. The Cathedral will open to the public in time for the September 11th memorial service.  UPI/Kevin Dietsch		













 





Study shows that injecting old mice with young mice blood makes them younger, sparkly and emo

If you want to get married on a cruise ship, then don't act surprised when the ship's official photographer...

Bastrop Wildfire -- 476 Homes Destroyed, 0% Contained

It's right there, in the Declaration of Independence: life, liberty, free lunch and cheap internet...

NAACP upset over 'offensive' sign at high school football game. They mad bro, they totally mad

People will suspect you don't take diversity very seriously if you end your job advert with "Usual...


 
 
 





Official Government Wires | 
				About UPI | 
				Site Map | 
				Terms of Use | 
				Privacy Policy | 
				Advertise Online | 
				Contact Us | 
				UPI Mailing Address

Top News | 
		Entertainment News | 

		Odd News | 
		Business news | 
		Sports News | 
		Science News | 
		Health News | 

		Real Estate News | 
		News Photos

Archive | 
		Job News | 
		World News | 

		Local News | 
		U.S News | 
		Special Reports


Resources:
			Celebrity Keynote Speakers Bureau -
 Portland Personal Injury -
 Motivational Speaker -
 Auto Dealers 

© 2011 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
UPI.com is your trusted source for world news, top news, science news, health news and current events. We thank you for visiting us and we hope that we will be your daily stop for news updates.


				© 2011 United Press International, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
				UPI.com contains copyrighted material, trademarks and other proprietary information 
				of United Press International, Inc. ("UPI") and its third-party licensors, including, but not limited to, text, photos, 
				videos, and graphics.  Visitors to UPI.com may use this Web site solely for their own personal and non-commercial use.  
				Any reproduction, republication and/or redistribution of any content on the Web site is expressly prohibited without the 
				prior written consent of UPI or its applicable third-party licensors.  UPI and United Press International are registered 
				trademarks in the United States and in other countries.			
				


 

















