5.8 earthquake largest to rock Virginia in a century | HamptonRoads.com | PilotOnline.com





Hampton Roads, VA - 09/05/201179°Scattered CloudsForecasts | Doppler RadarTraffic Cameras &amp VDOT Alerts 













News

Local News
U.S. and World News
Crime
Databases
Education
Obituaries
Politics
Opinion
Columnists
Traffic
Weather
Chesapeake
Norfolk
Portsmouth
Suffolk
Virginia Beach
Today's newspaper - ePilot


Business

Local Business
National Business
Stocks
Local Stocks
Biz Buzz
Business Events


Military

Military News
JFCOM Closure
Jacey Eckhart
Military Newcomers
Military Events
Afghanistan
Military Life Photos
Pilot Military Facebook


Sports

Local Sports
National Sports
High Schools
Auto Racing
Fishing and Outdoors
College Football
ODU Football
College Basketball
Norfolk Tides and MLB
Admirals and NHL
Redskins and NFL
Bob Molinaro
Tom Robinson


Entertainment

Local Entertainment
Summer Fun Guide
Events Calendar
Music and Nightlife
Restaurants
Movie Listings
Movie Theaters
Television
Celebrity and Pop Culture
Mike Gruss
Games 
Contests
Lottery


Life

Home and Garden
Food and Cooking
Health
Pets
Celebrations
Luxury Living
Moms


Community

Community News
Blogs
Community Groups
Photo Galleries
Polls
SchoolZone
Social Networks
-- Guides --
Attractions Guide
Best of Hampton Roads
Newcomers Guide
Summer Camps
Visitors Guide


The Virginian-Pilot

Today's newspaper - ePilot
Subscribe to The Pilot
Manage Pilot account
Advertise in The Pilot
Advertise online
Archives
Pilot Media careers
User panel
Pilot photos
Pilot Store
Newsroom staff
The Joy Fund
Newspapers in Education
Contact Us


 



Jobs
Autos
Homes
Rentals
Shopping
Yellow Pages





Log In | Create Account | Email/Wireless Alerts | RSS Feeds 



















Home » News » Environment 
5.8 earthquake largest to rock Virginia in a century
Posted to:  Environment News Virginia
Login or register to post comments
 



 [X]
Click a thumbnail to view the full-size image. 
	     Buy Pilot photos here. 
Loading...
Close Gallery







In order to get the best experience with our photo galleries, you must enable JavaScript in your browser.1 of 11 photos: Tidewater Community College students and MacArthur Center shoppers gather in the green space on Norfolk's Monticello Avenue after being evacuated from buildings after the earthquake Tuesday, Aug. 23, 2011. (Steve Earley | The Virginian-Pilot)Loading more photos... View all 11 photos | Buy Pilot photos


Tweet
Share



Interactive map

Earthquake reports to Geological Survey








Related

AP Interactive: Unusual quake sends tremor along East Coast  - Aug. 24
ODU team's Californians familiar with quakes - Aug. 24
Virginia rocked by most powerful earthquake in a century - Aug. 23
Thousands of travelers delayed by East Coast quake  - Aug. 23
Interactive map: Earthquake reports from across East Coast - Aug. 23
Buildings evacuated at Va. Beach Town Center after quake - Aug. 23
2 nuclear reactors taken offline after Virginia quake  - Aug. 23
Quake damages National Cathedral, Washington Monument - Aug. 23
Obama on Massachusetts golf course as quake strikes  - Aug. 23
From the Web: Reaction to Virginia earthquake - Aug. 23

Links
Details from U.S. Geological Survey
Virginia Tech Seismological Observatory
FEMA: What to do during an earthquake
 
 
 







	By Aaron Applegate		The Virginian-Pilot© August 24, 2011	
The biggest earthquake to hit Virginia in more than 100 years delivered a midday jolt to the East Coast from Georgia to Canada on Tuesday, shaking buildings and sending people scurrying into the streets. Most were wondering: What was that?
Cellphone service was temporarily jammed as surprised residents - many of whom were already tracking Hurricane Irene - called family and friends or city emergency operations centers to ask what had happened.
While no major damage or injuries were reported in Hampton Roads, Dominion Virginia Power shut down the two nuclear reactors at the North Anna Power Station near the epicenter as a precaution, though its Surry nuclear plant remained online. The North Anna plant issued an "Alert," the third-lowest of four emergency classifications.
The magnitude-5.8 quake struck at 1:51 p.m. near Mineral, Va., about 135 miles northwest of South Hampton Roads and 38 miles northwest of Richmond, according to the U.S. Geological Survey. It was originally rated a 5.9 but was downgraded.
"This is a big one by any measure of an eastern earthquake," said David Spears, Virginia's state geologist, adding that anything greater than magnitude 5 on the East Coast is an "extraordinary" event.
The quake was the second-biggest in Virginia's recorded history. The biggest, a 5.9 tremor near Blacksburg, occurred in 1897. The state's last significant earthquake was a 4.5 near Richmond in 2003.
Geologically, because Virginia is in the middle of a tectonic plate, the state does not experience large-magnitude earthquakes such as those that occur in California, which is on a boundary between two plates, said Jennifer Georgen, a geophysicist at Old Dominion University.
She said aftershocks are likely but may not be felt. In fact, a 2.8 tremor was recorded about an hour after Tuesday's quake in the same general area.
The 5.8 earthquake was felt over such a large area because East Coast bedrock is more solid than the fractured geology of Western states, which allows reverberations to travel far.
Virginia Department of Transportation staffers are inspecting bridges and tunnels and haven't found any problems, a spokeswoman said Tuesday evening. Hampton Roads Transit CEO Phil Shucet said the agency ran a "sweeper" train to check on Norfolk's new light-rail system, The Tide, and found nothing wrong. Ports and airports appear unscathed, too.
"The very good news is the damage and any injuries that have been reported have been very, very minor - no significant destruction," Gov. Bob McDonnell said.
Norfolk Naval Shipyard in Portsmouth sent nonessential workers home early to smooth inspections for potential damage. At the Virginia Beach Oceanfront, children ran out of the water and sunbathers sat up from their towels when the quake hit.
"I thought we were being bombed or something," said Phil Trowler of Pittsburgh, on vacation with family.
On the ninth floor of the Comfort Inn, Mille Lace, 58, braced herself on a balcony rail.
"It felt like a wave, like the building was swaying back and forth," the Arkansas resident said. "I thought the hotel was going to fall over."
In Norfolk, financial adviser Joel Jason was working on the 15th floor of the Bank of America building when he felt what he thought was someone rolling a heavy cart. Then the window blinds started rattling and his plants twitched like there was a breeze.
"I looked out in the hallway, and everybody had the same expression," he said.
In Chesapeake, police spokeswoman Kelly O'Sullivan said she was standing outside a second-floor office when she felt the building shake. She thought someone was working on the roof, but a computer monitor was shaking so much she thought it was going to fall off.
In Portsmouth, the staff of the commonwealth's attorney's office didn't lose time leaving the building.
"The whole building was swaying," said Andrew Kolp, a prosecutor.
A Suffolk spokeswoman reported cracks in several city buildings, including the assessor's office and the Whaleyville Fire Station.
Pilot writers Kathy Adams, Janie Bryant, Kristin Davis, Carl Fincke, Dave Forster, Veronica Gonzalez, Scott Harper, Jakon Hays, Mike Hixenbaugh, Jeff Sheler, Bill Sizemore, Lee Tolliver, Julian Walker and Kate Wiltrout contributed to this report.
Aaron Applegate, (757) 222-5122, aaron.applegate@pilotonline.com
 


Login or register to post comments

COMMENTS ADVISORY: Users are solely responsible for opinions they post here; comments do not reflect the views of The Virginian-Pilot or its websites. Users must follow agreed-upon rules: Be civil, be clean, be on topic; don't attack private individuals, other users or entire classes of people. Read the full rules here. 
- Comments are automatically checked for inappropriate language, but readers might find some comments offensive or inaccurate. If you believe a comment violates our rules, click the report violation link below it.




VP deleted my pun, yeah, I

   
      
			    Submitted by self ed.opine on Wed,  08/24/2011 at 10:04 pm.	  

VP deleted my pun, yeah, I know it was terrible, but come on.
I've got a real fan base down there(PILOT) lately, if I come back to defend a post a day later, they delete my original post and a two day ,thread of a dozen comments 3 days after the fact. You guys have gone off the chart as of late, and I believe it's a too young Shawn Day at the bequest of a got his tie on too tight Don Luzzatto. Just a theory based on observation. Delete away, this too will disappear as well but hopefully not before somebody else reads it. VP's take on open and frank discussion has hit an al time low, they keep upping the ante in ever increasing increments and show a partial and inconsistent favoritism when policing these boards. At times it can be stifling.


Login to your account to post commentsreport violationhide all comments from this user0 or 0 





worst thing to do

   
      
			    Submitted by Craig Paskewic on Wed,  08/24/2011 at 7:27 pm.	  

during an earthquake is to leave the building.
Let's see...ground starts shaking...EVERYONE OUT!
Where do you think the broken glass and bricks are going to go?  Right next to the buildings where everyone is standing outside.
Ya'll can say "but it was only a 5.9 or 5.8"!?  At the time, we didn't know this.
Earthquakes don't start at maximum strength. They work up to it, sometimes real fast.  Just like our vehicles can do 0 to 60 in X seconds.
Future reference - when it feels like an earthquake, get in a doorway or under your desk.  
Do not leave the building.


Login to your account to post commentsreport violationhide all comments from this user0 or 0 





update from USGS 

   
      
			    Submitted by terryb101 on Wed,  08/24/2011 at 11:13 am.	  

they have updated where the actual epicenter was for the quake, it was where to fault lines cross,the "Bush's" fault and the "it's not my fault" lines...


Login to your account to post commentsreport violationhide all comments from this user3 or 5 





Comment deleted

   
      
			    Submitted by admin (staffer) on Wed,  08/24/2011 at 11:27 am.	  

Comment removed for rules violation. Reason: Off topic


Login to your account to post commentsreport violationhide all comments from this user3 or 6 





California ... You're invited!

   
      
			    Submitted by works for a living on Wed,  08/24/2011 at 8:29 am.	  

We put up with a lot here in VA, and a little tremor won't scare us a bit!! Lets invite all of the Californians who've snickered at us to ride out Hurricane Irene here this weekend.


Login to your account to post commentsreport violationhide all comments from this user6 or 0 





CA your invited!!

   
      
			    Submitted by ktatc on Wed,  08/24/2011 at 10:07 am.	  

Thanks, I'll be here  as I live here now, born and raised in Southern California....


Login to your account to post commentsreport violationhide all comments from this user0 or 0 





Did'nt feel a thing

   
      
			    Submitted by nosoupforyou on Wed,  08/24/2011 at 8:22 am.	  

just south of the new TCC in Portsmouth. I was cutting grass and found about about it at 2:15 when I went in the house to get a drink.


Login to your account to post commentsreport violationhide all comments from this user0 or 0 





Thank Goodness

   
      
			    Submitted by dukedr on Wed,  08/24/2011 at 6:56 am.	  

Norfolk had light rail to help in the evactuation.. See that VB  you need it  before the next big one


Login to your account to post commentsreport violationhide all comments from this user2 or 2 





IS THERE SOMETHING ELSE GOING ON HERE?

   
      
			    Submitted by GLDNIVY1953 on Wed,  08/24/2011 at 1:59 am.	  

I cannot understand how an earthquake of such 'low' magnitude could be felt all the way up in New York and Canada....I'm just saying....is there something NOT being shared? Also...there was a 5.8 magnitude earthquake in Colorado at 5:45 am on the same day in approximately the same longitudinal location ... could there be something going on that we aren't being told about? Am I just trippin'


Login to your account to post commentsreport violationhide all comments from this user1 or 2 





could there be something going on ?

   
      
			    Submitted by terryb101 on Wed,  08/24/2011 at 11:15 am.	  

global warming's fault


Login to your account to post commentsreport violationhide all comments from this user1 or 2 


123456789…next ›last »

Comment viewing options


Flat list - collapsedFlat list - expandedThreaded list - collapsedThreaded list - expanded


Date - newest firstDate - oldest first


10 comments per page20 comments per page30 comments per page40 comments per page50 comments per page70 comments per page90 comments per page150 comments per page200 comments per page250 comments per page300 comments per page


Select your preferred way to display the comments and click "Save settings" to activate your changes.Please note: Threaded comments work best if you view the oldest comments first.


 


More Environment Stories




Many of the military’s ‘green’ tools go unseenNorth Anna reactors won't restart until safety assured Operation Blessing helping Japan earthquake victimsQuake risk to reactors greater than thought Swimming advisories lifted at Newport News beaches  





More News Stories




Driver killed in Chesapeake accidentHatteras ferry may not reopen until late TuesdayFamily says 'person of interest' identified in ODU slayingLightning: One good strike is all it takes to start a blazeHurricane Katia now strong Cat. 2, heading northwest 





More articles from: 
	 Environment      News     	










Toolbox

Print
Email




Save & Share
 Delicious Digg Reddit Facebook Twitter Google Yahoo










Find. Do. Tag. Share.
 

Find Local Businesses 











 

Popular Searches





 Restaurants Pizza Furniture Florists Car Repair Hotels Banks Tires Beauty Salons Apparel Appliances Auto Repair Car Rental 
 Electrician Doctors General Contractors Realtors Dentists Insurance Surgeons Veterinarians Lawyers Plumbers Attorneys Landscaping Mortgage Banker 







 

Partners
News from around Virginia

Also from The Pilot

Meet the men and women from Portsmouth Naval Medical Center who save soldiers and civilians in Afghanistan every day. Stories, videos, photos



 



















PilotOnline.com



News

Local News
US/World News
Business
Military
Crime
Opinion
Obituaries
Specials and Multimedia

Sports

High School Sports
National Sports

Weather


Traffic


Lottery





HamptonRoads.com



Entertainment

Local Events Calendar
Restaurants
Movies
Local Attractions

Community

Blogs
Photo Sharing

Local Guides

City Guides
Best of Hampton Roads

Life

Home and Garden
Food and Cooking




HamptonRoads.tv


Original Local Videos
Latest Videos
Traffic Cameras
Submit a Video




Classifieds



Jobs
Autos
Homes
Rentals
Shopping
Yellow Pages





Career Connection
Drive
Real Estate
Apartments
Coupons
Business Directory






Place an Ad









© 1993-2011, HamptonRoads.com | PilotOnline.com | HamptonRoads.tv
About Us | 	Advertising Info | 	Feedback | 	Join Our Team |  	Privacy Policy


















