Virginia earthquake's tremors felt far and wide - World - CBC News






Accessibility Links

Skip to main content
Skip to Virginia earthquake's tremors felt far and wide
Skip to supplementary story content
Skip to related news content
Skip to CBC accessibility page




 







CBC Global Header Navigation


CBC.ca

News
news drop down menu


Sports
sports drop down menu


Radio
radio drop down menu


TV
tv drop down menu


My Region drop down menu
 


More drop down menu
 


Watch 
Watch drop down menu


Listen
Listen drop down menu









Search CBC.ca

Submit Search


Sign Up
Log In


 







CBC News World

Major StoriesIn The News

Battle for Libya
9/11: Where were you?
Toronto Film Festival
Lightning and forest fires


CBC News Navigation
Home
World
Canada
Politics
Business
Health
Arts & Entertainment
Technology & Science
Community
Weather
Video

World
Photo Galleries




Virginia earthquake's tremors felt far and wide
No serious injuries, minor damage reported

CBC News

Posted:

Aug 23, 2011   2:08 PM ET



Last Updated: 

Aug 23, 2011  10:58 PM ET



 
Accessibility Links





Debris covers the aisles at a food store in Mineral, Va., on Tuesday after a magnitude 5.8 earthquake hit the area. (Steve Helber/Associated Press)



Related Story Content

Story Sharing Tools



Share with Add This
Print this story
E-mail this story







Related


Related Links

YOUR NEWS: Send us your photos, videos and stories
FAQs: Earthquakes







External Links

U.S. Geological Survey on the Virginia quake

(Note:CBC does not endorse and is not responsible for the content of external links.)





Accessibility Links


Beginning of Story Content
An unusually strong earthquake sent shock waves far beyond its Virginia epicentre on Tuesday, rattling residents all over the U.S. Eastern Seaboard and Canada.
The U.S. Geological Survey put the quake's magnitude at 5.8. It was centred near Mineral, Va., about 135 kilometres southwest of Washington, D.C. After several revisions, the U.S.G.S. placed the quake's depth at six kilometres.
There were no reports of serious injuries or deaths but a fire department spokesman in Washington said there were reports of minor injuries.
Some damage was reported to buildings in the U.S. capital. A spokesman for Washington's National Cathedral says at least three of the four stone pinnacles on the central tower had fallen off and the central tower looked like it was leaning.
Several airports in New York, Philadelphia and the Washington area briefly suspended flights.
In the Washington, D.C., area, many major buildings were evacuated. In nearby Virginia, people ran through the corridors of the Pentagon amid shouts of "Evacuate! Evacuate!"
"I thought it was a big truck going down the street at first until the building started to sway," said CBC associate producer Caroline Laurin, who works in the CBC's Washington bureau. 
 YOUR NEWS Send us your photos, videos and stories if you felt the quake 
"Then we all laughed nervously."
Two nuclear reactors near the epicentre in Virginia were automatically taken off line. No damage was reported there.
U.S. President Barack Obama was starting a round of golf in Martha's Vineyard, Mass., when the quake struck. He apparently didn't notice it. The White House said he held a conference call with administration officials and was assured there was no major damage.
The quake was also felt in New York, Maryland, North Carolina, Ohio, Georgia and north into Canada. 
In New York City, workers in the Empire State Building walked down dozens of flights of stairs. "I thought we'd been hit by an airplane," said one worker, Marty Weisner.
People from across the U.S. Eastern Seaboard and from Ontario to New Brunswick headed to their phones and their Twitter accounts to say they felt the ground move when the temblor struck at 1:51 p.m. ET. Office workers gather on the sidewalk in downtown Washington, D.C., moments after a 5.8 magnitude earthquake struck on Tuesday.  (J. Scott Applewhite/Associated Press)    In Toronto, CBC provincial affairs reporter Mike Crawley said he felt the walls of the Ontario legislature shake.
“I live on the top floor of my building and two of my chandeliers and two big mirrors in my living room and dining room were shaking,” wrote Steve Smythe of London, Ont.
A pair of government buildings in downtown Sudbury, Ont., were evacuated after they began shaking. City officials say they were cleared out in order to check for any damage. Windsor, Ont., also felt a jolt and city hall was evacuated.
Other viewers called and tweeted the CBC, reporting that they felt the earth shake in and around Ottawa and downtown Montreal.
Numerous buildings in downtown Fredericton have been evacuated. That included various government buildings and New Brunswick Power.
There were no reports of injuries or damage in Canada.
The quake quickly became a trending topic on Twitter, leading some to poke fun at all the fuss. Many people retweeted a picture of a patio set with one of its plastic chairs flipped on its back. Attached to it was the following message: "Thanks to all of you for your kind words of support, as we look to recover from the devastation of today's quake."  Biggest East Coast quake since 1944 If this earthquake's magnitude remains at 5.8, it would almost rival the largest one ever recorded in Virginia — a 5.9 quake that shook the state in 1897. It would match a 5.8 quake that rattled through New York in 1944. The biggest quake to ever hit the U.S. East Coast took place in South Carolina back in 1886. It had a magnitude of 7.3. 
Quakes of this power are much more common in the western U.S. But when they happen on the East Coast, they're felt over a wider area as the ground is older and more intact.
"The waves are able to reverberate and travel pretty happily out for miles," said U.S. Geological Survey seismologist Susan Hough.
With files from The Associated Press
Accessibility Links

Story Social Media

Story Tools


Report Typo
Send Feedback









Print this story
E-mail this story





Related News Content

Stay Connected with CBC News

Mobile
Facebook
Podcasts
Twitter
Alerts
Newsletter


Big Box Advertisement







Top News Headlines




U.K. probes its spies' ties to Gadhafi regime 

British Prime Minister David Cameron says a national inquiry into anti-terrorism policy will examine allegations of cozy ties between U.K. intelligence and ousted Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi's regime. more »




Woman shot dead at Hobbema, Alta., reserve 

Another person has been fatally shot on the Hobbema reserve southeast of Edmonton, CBC News has learned. more »
Olivia Chow rules out NDP leadership bid  

NDP MP Olivia Chow tells the CBC's Peter Mansbridge in an exclusive interview that she is ruling out a bid to succeed her late husband Jack Layton as leader of the Opposition New Democratic Party.  more »
Ottawa doctor beaten in Libyan prison 

A Libyan-Canadian neurosurgeon freed from a Tripoli prison by anti-Gadhafi rebels last month said he is lucky to be alive after he was beaten and threatened with rape by his captors. more »
McMaster study may have found the exercise gene 

McMaster University researchers have discovered that a key gene may explain why some people are energetic and others find it hard to get moving. more »

More Headlines »




Most Recent


Watch
Listen





Show previous slide





Show next slide




Show previous slide





Show next slide





Latest World News Headlines




Texas wildfire destroys hundreds of homes 

A roaring wildfire races through rain-starved farm and ranchland in central Texas, destroying nearly 500 homes. more »




U.K. probes its spies' ties to Gadhafi regime 

British Prime Minister David Cameron says a national inquiry into anti-terrorism policy will examine allegations of cozy ties between U.K. intelligence and ousted Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi's regime. more »
Mississippi man drowns in Lee's floodwaters  

A man drowned when he was swept away by floodwaters spawned by the remnants of Tropical Storm Lee in Mississippi, authorities said as the storm dumped steady rain across the U.S. South.    more »
Japan seeks survivors of Typhoon Talas

Rescuers and search parties scoured central Japan as the death toll from the worst typhoon to hit the country in seven years climbed to 26, adding more misery to a nation still reeling from its catastrophic tsunami six months ago. more »
Mubarak prosecution thwarted by police witnesses 

A senior police officer called by prosecutors to testify against ousted Egyptian president Hosni Mubarak throws a wrench in their case, saying there were never any orders to shoot protesters in Cairo's Tahrir Square. more »

More Headlines »




Dispatches »

Adrienne Arsenault on terrorism's future Sep.  2, 2011  5:26 PM CBC correspondent Adreinne Arsenault briefs Rick MacInnes-Rae from The Philippines about the War On Terrorism's forgotten second front there, and the ever-expanding security/industrial complex in the U.S. 



Connect Newsroom Blog
Connect: Survivor Stories Sep.  2, 2011  8:59 PM Hear pilot Mike Trapp tell his unbelievable tale of crashing into Lake Huron and then spending the next 18 hours treading water - fighting to stay afloat and stay alive.


Google Ads











Show previous slide

Don't Miss



SLIDESHOW
Life inside Kenya's biggest refugee camp
Thousands affected by drought, famine seek help at Dadaab




photos
Gadgets and gizmos: IFA electronics fair
Trade show runs from Sept. 2 to 7 in Berlin




PHOTOS
Memorializing Sept. 11
Ways the attacks and their victims are remembered




NEWS QUIZ
Test your knowledge of this week's top stories





photos
The 68th Venice Film Festival
The 68th Venice Film Festival runs from Aug. 31 to Sept. 10




Henry Champ
More summer silliness over the president's big jobs speech





SPECIAL REPORT
A decade later, revisiting Sept. 11
Video, photos, features on terror activity, border security and more




Brian Stewart
Helping with the famine, why is Africa not doing more?





Richard Handler
What's the Big Idea?





NEIL MACDONALD
How Osama bin Laden killed the Palestinian dream
Fellow Arabs tarred probably for decades to come




INTERACTIVE
Where were you on 9/11?
CBC staff and viewers share their stories




STRANDED IN CANADA
The planes diverted on 9/11 and the lives they changed
Friendships remain 10 years after unexpected landings in Canada




TIME STOOD STILL
The 9/11 cover that captured the world
Lyle Owerko's 9/11 photography




INTERACTIVE
Ground Zero: A 180-degree view 
From rubble to rebuilding



Show next slide




CBC Global Footer Navigation


CBC.ca


Aboriginal
Books
Contests
Digital Archives
Documentaries
Kids
Kids' CBC Preschool


Kids' CBC Wonder World
News
Parents
Program Guide
Radio
Sports
Television


CBC Member Centre
CBC Player
CBC Shop



Corporate

About CBC
Jobs
Visit the Canadian Broadcasting Centre
Production Facilities
Mobile Production Rentals
Ombudsman
CBC: Get the Facts


Independent Producers
Pitch a Radio or Audio Program
Program and Content Sales
Archive Sales
Educational Sales
Tapes, Transcripts and Image Assets
Digital TV




Stay Connected

Mobile
RSS
Podcasts

Member Services:Newsletters & Alerts




CBC Links

Terms Of Use
Reuse & Permissions
Advertise
Privacy

Site Map
Contact Us

CBC Radio-Canada

Copyright © CBC 2011

cbc.radio-canada.ca
cbc.ca
radio-canada.ca












