topernic's Amplify | Amplify.com










Enjoy the conversation.
Amplify is a place to talk about what's going on.
It's as simple as that.




				   
				










topernic | My Amplify
Things I Amplify from the web






 


“It’s Official: Glyphosate used on GM crops found in US rivers, rainfall”

2 days  ago by topernic in Health
The poisoning continues.Amplify’d from www.gmfreeze.orgMonitoring by the US Geological Survey (USGS) has revealed that glyphosate and its breakdown product Aminomethylphosphonic acid (known as AMPA) are frequently found in rainfall and rivers in the Mississippi Basin, where most GM crops tolerant to glyphosate are grown. [1]
Glyphosate (the basis of Monsanto’s brand name product Roundup) is widely used in the US with Monsanto's Roundup Ready GM crops, which have been genetically modified to tolerate the weedkiller, so they survive when a field is sprayed with it. Herbicide tolerant GM plants are not currently grown in the UK due to concerns about adverse impacts on wildlife associated with the loss of habitat caused by the weedkiller. However Monsanto has lobbied persistently for their introduction. Roundup Ready soya and maize are imported from the US for use in animal feed, and meat and dairy products fed on GM feed are not labelled in many British supermarkets.
The USGS results are based on two studies of rain and watersheds in agricultural areas of the Mississippi Basin where the “the greatest use” of glyphosate takes place to control weeds in GM maize, soya and cotton tolerant to glyphosate/Roundup. The USGS reports that glyphosate use rose by more than eight fold, to 88,000 tons, in the 15 years to 2007, further eroding the myth that GM crops reduce chemical use.
Monsanto has repeatedly denied that glyphosate washes off fields in significant amounts, claiming the herbicide binds to soil particles and therefore cannot be leached. [2]
The USGS results confirm warnings from other countries that glyphosate is more mobile in some soils than the biotech corporation is prepared to admit. [3]
The presence of glyphosate and AMPA in surface waters means that drinking water quality and aquatic wildlife may be put at risk. Studies have shown many aquatic species are affected by the herbicide and its breakdown product, and there is growing concern about the safety of the product for human health. [4] In addition the overuse of glyphosate on GM soya, cotton and maize crops is driving an escalation and spread of problem weeds resistant to the weedkiller, meaning even more Roundup has to be used, often in combination with other herbicides, in an attempt to control these new “super” weeds.
The USGS found glyphosate in more than 60% of air and rain sampled at three locations in Mississippi, Iowa and Indiana, with AMPA found in more than 50% of samples, at concentrations up to 9.1ng/cubic metre and 0.49ng/cubic metre respectively. [5] Researchers from the USGS estimate that about 1% of glyphosate sprayed in catchments ended up in surface waters in the four areas where monitoring was conducted in streams and rivers. Concentrations varied between different river systems that formed part of the monitoring programme. The highest median level of glyphosate detected was 5.7μg/litre. [6] This level would not be allowed to enter public supply untreated under the EU Drinking Water Directive.Read more at www.gmfreeze.org 

Comment 





Leave a comment:






To post your comment, please sign in with one of the following...

















“Take action NOW to stop FDA from turning your vitamins and supplements into unapproved ‘food additives’”

4 days  ago by topernic in Health
Amplify’d from www.naturalnews.com(NaturalNews) We here at NaturalNews cannot stress enough how important it is to take the time to fight back against the US Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) latest assault against vitamins and dietary supplements.Proposed guidelines put forth by the agency for "New Dietary Ingredients" (NDIs) propose treating vitamins, herbs, and dietary supplements as synthetic food preservatives, which means pulling many of them off the market, and subjecting the rest to extreme regulatory protocols that will drive up costs and severely limit availability.The Dietary Supplement Health and Information Act of 1994 (DSHEA), as many NaturalNews readers likely already know, was a major victory achieved for health freedom. It is also the foundation upon which the dietary supplement market as well as the health of millions of Americans has thrived.Part of this legislation, however, outlines that the FDA must establish a final rule for how supplement manufacturers are to notify the agency of NDIs, a mandate that the FDA finally got around to addressing back in July. But what the FDA came up with as a solution is the complete opposite of what DSHEA, and the Congress that passed it, intended for the agency to do.Instead of creating a simple method of notification as it was supposed to do, the FDA decided instead to manipulate and distort the NDI notification process by turning it into a type of regulatory approval process, similar to what drug companies are required to complete in order to get new drugs approved.Under the proposed FDA guidelines, vitamin and dietary supplement manufacturers will have to submit applications for approval, rather than notifications of use, for all new ingredients or ingredient blends they use that were not in widespread use prior to 1994 when DSHEA was passed.Because of tricky language contained in the proposal, practically all supplements currently on the market will be subjected to these new guidelines, as the FDA considers things like changed dosages and altered ingredient formulations with new ingredients.Read more at www.naturalnews.com 

Comment 





Leave a comment:






To post your comment, please sign in with one of the following...

















“ConAgra Sued Over GMO ’100% Natural’ Cooking Oils”

4 days  ago by topernic in Health
Amplify’d from foodfreedom.wordpress.comIf you use Wesson brand cooking oils, you may be able to join a class action against food giant ConAgra for deceptively marketing the products as natural.
These days it’s hard to walk down a supermarket aisle without bumping into a food product that claims to be “all-natural.” If you’ve ever wondered how even some junk food products can claim this moniker (witness: Cheetos Natural Puff White Cheddar Cheese Flavored Snacks – doesn’t that sound like it came straight from your garden?) the answer is simple if illogical: the Food and Drug Administration has not defined the term natural.
So food marketers, knowing that many shoppers are increasingly concerned about healthful eating, figured: why not just slap the natural label on anything we can get away with? That wishful thinking may soon be coming to an end if a few clever consumer lawyers have anything to say about it.
While various lawsuits have been filed in recent years claiming that food companies using the term natural are engaging in deceptive marketing, a suit filed in June in California against ConAgra could make the entire industrial food complex shake in its boots.
The plaintiff claims he relied on Wesson oils “100% natural” label, when the products are actually made from genetically modified organisms.
GMOs Not Exactly Natural, So Says Monsanto
Ironically, the complaint cites a definition of GMOs by none other than Monsanto, the company most notorious for its promotion of the technology. According to Monsanto, GMOs are: “Plants or animals that have had their genetic makeup altered to exhibit traits that are not naturally theirs.”
The complaint also quotes a GMO definition from the World Health Organization: “Organisms in which the genetic material (DNA) has been altered in a way that does not occur naturally.”
Four Wesson varieties are implicated in the case: Canola Oil, Vegetable Oil, Corn Oil, and Best Blend. And it’s not just on the label that ConAgra is using the natural claim, but also online and in print advertisements.
(Additional silly health claims on the website include “cholesterol free”–vegetable oils couldn’t possibly contain cholesterol anyway.)
The complaint describes the extent of ConAgra’s deception, alleging the “labels are intended to evoke a natural, wholesome product.” And further:
The “100% Natural” statement is, like much of the label on Wesson Oils, displayed in vibrant green. The “Wesson” name is haloed by the image of the sun, and the Canola Oil features a picture of a green heart.Read more at foodfreedom.wordpress.com 

Comment 





Leave a comment:






To post your comment, please sign in with one of the following...

















“Huge stockpile of toxic waste in 12 provinces”

4 days  ago by topernic in Health
More China poison from civilization.Amplify’d from www.chinadaily.com.cnBEIJING - One million tons of untreated toxic industrial waste are piling up across China, risking environmental disasters like the recently exposed case in Yunnan province, a non-governmental organization has warned.
      
Earlier this month it was revealed that more than 5,000 tons of chromium residue were illegally dumped on roadsides and in mountains by a chemical factory in Yunnan's Qujing city, causing the deaths of 77 head of livestock.
        
Official tests found "excessive sexivalent chromium" in water in the area where the waste was dumped.
          
Tests of the groundwater near the factory by Greenpeace, an environmental protection organization, showed that the concentration of sexivalent chromium in the water was 242 times the national standard.
            
Chromium residue is a heavy metal and hazardous waste residue generated in the production of chromium metal and chromium salt.
              
Hexavalent compounds in the residue are the most toxic. The soluble and unstable chemical may cause health problems, such as kidney and liver damage, after entering human bodies through respiration, the skin, mucous membranes and digestion of food.
                
The International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC), part of the World Health Organization, lists these compounds as carcinogenic for humans.
                  
A national remediation scheme for chromium residue pollution in 2005 showed more than 4 million tons of the chemical had been stockpiled untreated in 19 provinces. This led to official demands that the waste be disposed of safely by the end of 2010.
                    
                      "Most of the waste was not properly disposed of, but directly discharged into the environment. Some of it was even dumped in important water sources and densely populated areas," reported the scheme published on the website of the National Development and Reform Commission, the country's top economic planning agency.
                      
It also said without decontamination, chromium residue had seriously polluted surface water, groundwater and soil, and posed a huge threat to people's lives and property.
                        
According to the 2010 Report on the State of the Environment in China, 3 million tons of the residue in seven provinces have been treated, which means there are still 1 million tons left untreated in 12 provinces.
                          
Wang Peilin, deputy secretary-general of the China Inorganic Salts Industry Association, said in previous interviews the figure was 1.3 million tons.
                            
                              "This Yunnan incident also confirmed that disposal of the waste was not completed by 2010, and was a warning for other businesses which had not completed their disposal tasks. We can no longer be sluggish in the management of waste," she said.
                              
Official data shows China is the world's largest producer and consumer of chromium with an annual production capacity of more than 300,000 tons. The chemical is widely used for the manufacture of stainless steel, leather and bicycle parts.
                                
                                  "Due to outdated technology, 3 to 5 tons of hexavalent chromium are generated when producing 1 ton of chromium," said Ma Tianjie, senior toxics prevention campaigner at Greenpeace.
                                  
He said this latest contamination incident once again showed the dangers of the development model of "pollution first, treatment later".
                                    Read more at www.chinadaily.com.cn 

Comment 





Leave a comment:






To post your comment, please sign in with one of the following...

















“Breast cancer rate climbs up”

4 days  ago by topernic in Health
But of course they will have to study for another 20 years to be sure.  Civilization at its finest.Amplify’d from www.dentonrc.comBecause the rise in local cancer rates occurred in the same counties as 
      those with the Barnett Shale’s most intense gas drilling development, 
      some residents are concerned about toxic exposures.
    

      In 2010, the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality inventoried 
      emissions sources from natural gas production equipment in all 24 
      counties of the Barnett Shale. The six counties with the most production 
      equipment are Denton, Hood, Johnson, Parker, Tarrant and Wise counties — 
      the same six counties with high breast cancer rates.
    Read more at www.dentonrc.com 

Comment 





Leave a comment:






To post your comment, please sign in with one of the following...

















“Apple attacked over pollution in China”

4 days  ago by topernic in Health
Keep buying the IPhones and computers - kill us all.Amplify’d from www.ft.comChina’s breakneck economic growth has been accompanied by widespread environmental degradation, and historically lax pollution rules have given Chinese manufacturers a cost advantage. However, tightening regulation by Beijing and growing environmental awareness – most recently on display in a 12,000-strong protest in Dalian earlier this month – are slowly changing the trend. 
Apple, whose chief executive Steve Jobs resigned last week due to ill health, has faced controversy over its suppliers in China before. In May, an explosion at a Foxconn factory in Chengdu producing the iPad 2 killed three workers and injured more than a dozen more. In February, Apple said that 137 workers had been poisoned in 2009 by a chemical used to clean iPhone screens in a Wintek factory in Suzhou. 
According to the report, in the eastern Chinese city of Kunshan, air pollution from two electronics factories prompted villagers to send their children to faraway schools. Villagers also say they have noticed increased cancer rates since the two factories, Kaedar Electronics (Kunshan) and Unimicron Electronics, were established, according to the report. Analysts said that Unimicron and Pegatron, the parent company of Kaedar, were suppliers to Apple, but could not confirm whether Kaedar was.
Apple did not respond to questions seeking to confirm whether individual companies mentioned in the report were its suppliers or not.
“Apple is committed to driving the highest standards of social responsibility throughout our supply base,” said Carolyn Wu, an Apple spokeswoman. “We require that our suppliers provide safe working conditions, treat workers with dignity and respect, and use environmentally responsible manufacturing processes wherever Apple products are made.”
In its latest supplier responsibility report, the company said 2010 audits had found that 80 facilities were not storing or handling hazardous chemicals properly. Apple’s report said the company required the non-compliant facilities to correct their hazardous waste handling, storage and disposal practices and to maintain documentation of these operations.
Kaedar declined to comment and Unimicron could not be reached.Read more at www.ft.com 

Comment 





Leave a comment:






To post your comment, please sign in with one of the following...

















“How Do We Stop the Relentless Expansion of the American Empire?”

1 week  ago by topernic in Politics
Amplify’d from www.alternet.orgA few weeks ago, in a conversation with U.S. Special Operations Command spokesman Colonel Tim Nye, Nick Turse -- one of the great investigative reporters on military power and national security -- learned something truly shocking. He found out that, on any given day, American commandos are carrying out secret missions in 70 countries. And here is some startling news -- by the end of the year, that number is likely to reach 120.That’s right. You read that correctly. America’s secret commandos are carrying out operations in 120 countries around the world. What Nick learned provides striking new evidence of a rising clandestine Pentagon power elite, waging a secret war in about 60% of the world’s nations -- a far larger number than was previously acknowledged.This represents a huge expansion by the Obama administration over that of George W. Bush, who deployed "Special Ops" troops in 60 countries.As Turse points out: Without the knowledge of the American public, a secret unit within the U.S. military -- U.S. Special Operations Command (SOCOM) -- has grown into a combined force of startling proportions. Made up of the Army’s “Green Berets” and Rangers, Navy SEALs, Air Force Air Commandos, and Marine Corps Special Operations teams, in addition to specialized helicopter crews, boat teams, civil affairs personnel, para-rescuemen, and even battlefield air-traffic controllers and special operations weathermen, SOCOM carries out the United States’ most specialized and shadowy missions. These include assassinations, counterterrorist raids, long-range reconnaissance, intelligence analysis, foreign troop training, and weapons of mass destruction counter-proliferation operations.Read more at www.alternet.org 

Comment 





Leave a comment:






To post your comment, please sign in with one of the following...

















“Did Fracking Cause the Virginia Earthquake?”

1 week  ago by topernic in Health
Amplify’d from www.opednews.comEarthquakes in the nation's capitol are as rare as hen's teeth. The 
epicenter of Tuesday's quake was in Mineral, Virginia, which is located 
on three very quiet fault lines. The occurrence of yet another freak 
earthquake in an unusual location is leading many anti-fracking 
activists (including me -- they have just started fracking in Stratford, 
which is 40 minutes from New Plymouth) to wonder whether "fracking" in 
nearby West   Virginia may be responsible.
Fracking, or hydraulic fracturing, is the process of initiating and 
subsequently propagating a fracture in a rock layer, employing the 
pressure of a fluid as the source of energy. The fracturing is done from a wellbore drilled into reservoir rock formations, in order to increase the extraction rates and ultimate recovery of oil and natural gas and coal seam gas.
How Fracking Causes Earthquakes
According to geologists, it isn't the fracking itself that is linked 
to earthquakes, but the re-injection of waste salt water (as much as 3 
million gallons per well) deep into rock beds.
Braxton County West Virginia (160 miles from Mineral) has experienced
 a rash of freak earthquakes (eight in 2010) since fracking operations 
started there several years ago. According to geologists fracking also 
caused an outbreak of thousands of minor earthquakes in Arkansas (as 
many as two dozen in a single day). It's also linked to freak 
earthquakes in Texas, western New   York, Oklahoma and Blackpool, England (which 
had never recorded an earthquake before).
Industry scientists deny the link to earthquakes, arguing that energy
 companies have been fracking for nearly sixty years. However it's only a
 dozen years ago that "slick-water fracks" were introduced. This form of
 fracking uses huge amounts of water mixed with sand and dozens of toxic
 chemicals like benzene, all of which is injected under extreme pressure
 to shatter the underground rock reservoir and release gas trapped in 
the rock pores. Not only does the practice utilize millions of gallons 
of freshwater per frack (taken from lakes, rivers, or municipal water 
supplies), the toxic chemicals mixed in the water to make it "slick" 
endanger groundwater aquifers and threaten to pollute nearby 
water-wells.
Horizontal drilling and multi-stage fracking (which extend fractures across several kilometres) were introduced in 2004.
The Research Evidence
I think it's really hard to deny there's a connection when 
the frequency of Arkansas earthquakes dropped by two-thirds when the 
Arkansas Oil and Gas Commission banned fracking (see http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/04/21/fracking-shutdown-earthquakes-arkansas_n_851930.html). Note that they didn't stop entirely, which suggests that fault disruption may persist even after fracking stops.
Braxton County West Virginia also experienced a marked 
reduction in their quakes after the West Virginia Oil and Gas Commission
 forced fracking companies to cut back on the pressure and rate of salt 
water injection into the bedrock (see http://www.hurherald.com/cgi-bin/db_scripts/articles?Action=user_view&db=hurheral_articles&id=43334).
According to a joint study by Southern Methodist University and 
University of Texas-Austin, earthquakes started in the Dallas/Fort Worth
 region after a fracking disposal well there began operating in 2008 and
 stopped when it was closed in 2009 (see http://www.watershedsentinel.ca/content/does-gas-fracking-cause-earthquakes).Read more at www.opednews.com 

Comment 





Leave a comment:






To post your comment, please sign in with one of the following...

















“Brazil to ‘do to Indians what Australia did to Aboriginals’ “

2 weeks  ago by topernic in Politics
Amplify’d from www.survivalinternational.org
Many Aboriginal people in Australia were wiped out following the theft of their land from the end of the 18th century onwards. Today, many live in appalling conditions with a much lower life expectancy than the rest of the population.

 Facebook  E-mail  Twitter
 


Your message (optional)Read more at www.survivalinternational.org 

Comment 





Leave a comment:






To post your comment, please sign in with one of the following...

















“More bomb attacks against nanotechnology in Mexico”

2 weeks  ago by topernic in Politics
Amplify’d from earthfirstnews.wordpress.comThe same group who took credit for anti-technology bombing in April, which news sources in Mexico reported exploding at Universidad Politécnica in Valle de Mexico, has claimed more attacks. 
According to Time Magazine, “An anti-technology group… was responsible for a package bomb that injured two university professors just outside Mexico City, a state prosecutor said Tuesday [August 9, 2011]. Mexico’s Attorney General’s Office announced that a suspicious envelope presumbly containing explosives was found at Mexico’s National Polytechnical Institute on Tuesday, though it didn’t detonate. The office has opened investigations into both incidents.” 
The Time article claims the groups is calling itself ‘Individuals Tending to Savagery’, although a translator’s note on the anarchist blog War On Society, which posted a translation of the communique, uses the name ‘Individualists Tending Towards the Wild’ and explains: “The group’s name, Individualidades tendiendo a lo Salvaje [ITS]… more literally means ‘individualities,’ and salvaje more literally means ‘savage’… having more of the connotations of barbarous undomesticated wildness than pure pristine wilderness, and without as much racist connotation as the English ‘savage’ has.”
As with the April communique, ITS is again a bit wordy, with plenty of footnotes, ala Ted Kaczynski. Here are some excerpts: “But what’s wrong with creating solar energy through modified nanoparticles? some will say. ITS answer: When these modified viruses affect the way we develop as the result of a nanobacteriological war, by some laboratory error, or by the explosion of nanocontamination that compromises the air, food, transportation, water, in short, the entire world, then they will realize, all those who defend nanotechnology and cannot find an apparent threat, that it was a grave mistake to leave it to grow at their leisure.”Read more at earthfirstnews.wordpress.com 

Comment 





Leave a comment:






To post your comment, please sign in with one of the following...
















 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10  ... 30Older »

 


 


Name: topernic

Location: Home, most of the time.Twitter: @topernicWeb: topernic.comBio: That's me in the black. 

22Followers23Sources309PostsFollow



See topernic's profile
 
Where to find me...

topernic is followingDanielle RicksFollowqutequteFollowGinae B. McDonaldFollowShevonne PolastreFollowchaz2bFollowHelen Marina Sventitsky-RotherFollowAlyn WilliamFollowAmiraFollowJodyFollowsee alltopernic's Recent Activitycommented on topernic's clipDogs; More Precious Than Peoplecommented on Eric Goldstein's clip40 characters on Amplifycommented on qutequte's clipvia @ToptenTopten The Top Ten Sexy Women Over 40 years old: http://bit.ly/DTETicommented on Helen Marina Sventitsky-Rother's clipI just restored my account on FriendFeed.  My posts from here are not...What I'm reading aboutadobe flash player
alternative news
american
cancer
chemicals
children
company
desdemona despair
div
drug administration
environment
federal
fracking
genetically
glyphosate
government
independent media
indigenous
industry
media activism
new york
new york times
nuclear
officer
people
police
radiation
report
united states
vaccine
vaccines
workers



















Today's Featured Users

Richard KruegerBernie DeKovenmediacollectiveScrappinMichelealwaysme3David C.



Popular Topics
PoliticsScienceSocial mediaEconomyReligionTechnologyPsychologyFoodEnergyClimate

Amplog Archive
September 2011


M
T
W
T
F
S
S




« Aug
 
 




 1234


567891011


12131415161718


19202122232425


2627282930
 







© 2010 Clipmarks, LLC
			  
			
Terms of Service
Copyright
Privacy
About
FAQ
Bookmarklet
Mobile
Public Timeline


Amplify™   Powered by WordPress MU



