Alexander Higgins Blog - powered by FeedBurner
&



Alexander Higgins Blog

syndicated content powered by FeedBurner






...

Reset this favorite; show all Subscribe options



Subscribe Now!
...with web-based news readers. Click your choice below:







...with other readers:

(Choose Your Reader)FeedDemonNetNewsWireNewsFireNewsGator Outlook EditionRSSOwlShrookUniversal Subscription Mechanism (USM)


 View Feed XML




FeedBurner makes it easy to receive content updates in My Yahoo!, Newsgator, Bloglines, and other news readers.

Learn more about syndication and FeedBurner...

Current Feed Content



#WikiLeaks – US, France Knew In 2007 Financial Collapse Was Imminent Due To Wall Street Fraud


Posted: 2011-09-04 00:46:36 UTC
In 2007 top US and France officials knew rampant fraud being committed by regulators, rating agencies and Wall Street Banks would soon cause a global financial collapse.
While investors and nations around the world were happily giving trillions of dollars away to crooked Wall Street bankers top officials in the United States and France knew the market would soon collapse and people would be robbed of millions.
While raising the issue that the role of government regulators and rating agencies needed to be reviewed in the wake of the upcoming crisis, US officials ignored calls from the French government to enact necessary regulation to stop the rampant fraud that would soon result in investors losing tens of trillions of dollars they had invested into the markets.
The cable reveals that while discussing the ability of the French banks to survive the crisis, French President Sarkozy was pushing the US to enact regulations to forestall the crisis. Instead, Henry Paulson responded by telling Sarkozy not to overreacted because the” it would take months, not weeks, for credit to be re-priced” telling France this is “not a major crisis.”
Paulson went on to warn that the major problem was with the German banks and which would require a bailout from the taxpayer while warning that the assets held by banks but covered up from investors by being held off-balance sheet presented systematic risk to banks and to sovereign wealth.
The cable clearly reveals that taxpayer bailouts would be needed.  Paulson further up sticks up for the Wall Street hedge fund saying they were not to blame for the crisis while acknowledging there were major Wall Street transparency issues.
To summarize, the cable reveals that top government officials in France and the US knew Wall street banks were committing fraud in the origination and packaging of sub-prime mortgage and lying to investors about the resulting securities they were creating and selling. Officials knew banks were also lying about their own liabilities and hiding them from investors by keeping the assets off their balance sheets.  The government also knew that both regulators and ratings agencies were participating in the scheme.
Remember as you read this cable, these conversations all took place over a year before the 2008 financial collapse when taxpayers around the world were forced into giving up trillions of dollars for banker bailouts. Also keep in mind that while the cable discusses “systemic risk”, “bailouts” and “market turbulence”, none of these had happened yet. They were discussing what would soon happen in the future.
The discussion of “systemic risk”, “market turbulence” and “taxpayer bailouts” over a year before the markets actually collapsed and those events actually occurred, show they knew a global financial collapse. Not only did they know it would occur but knew what the consequences would be for the investors and the governments who were fleeced by Wall Street. As the cable reveals, Paulson chose to deal with the crisis by letting it continue and urging France to keep the issue underwaps  by  urging Sarkozy not  to “over react”, hence allowing the scandal to the continue which just postponed the inevitable.
Also remember when we were forced into these bailouts, it was  under the guise that our governments had no idea the banks were doing this and this was a sudden and unforeseeable crisis. Finally, remember that – while there have been plenty of accusations from “conspiracy theorists”,  “fringe economists” and “wing nut” politicians such as Ron Paul – there still has been no admission from our government that financial regulators or the ratings agencies played a role in the crisis.
 
PAULSON DISCUSSES FINANCIAL MARKETS, IRAN WITH SARKOZY, LAGARDE



Subject
PAULSON DISCUSSES FINANCIAL MARKETS, IRAN WITH SARKOZY, LAGARDE


Origin
Embassy Paris (France)


Cable time
2007-10-01 10:46 UTC


Classification
CONFIDENTIAL


Source
http://wikileaks.org/cable/2007/10/07PARIS4109.html


History
First published on WES, 30 Sep 2011 01:44 UTC





Viewing cable 07PARIS4109, PAULSON DISCUSSES FINANCIAL MARKETS, IRAN WITH SARKOZY, LAGARDE
If you are new to these pages, please read an introduction on the structure of a cable as well as how to discuss them with others. See also the FAQs



Reference ID
Created
Released
Classification
Origin


07PARIS4109
2007-10-01 10:46
2011-08-30 01:44
CONFIDENTIAL
Embassy Paris



 
VZCZCXRO3134
RR RUEHDBU RUEHFL RUEHKW RUEHLA RUEHROV RUEHSR
DE RUEHFR #4109/01 2741046
ZNY CCCCC ZZH
R 011046Z OCT 07
FM AMEMBASSY PARIS
TO RUEHC/SECSTATE WASHDC 0558
RUEATRS/DEPARTMENT OF TREASURY WASHDC
RHEHNSC/NSC WASHINGTON DC
INFO RUEHZL/EUROPEAN POLITICAL COLLECTIVE
 
C O N F I D E N T I A L SECTION 01 OF 02 PARIS 004109 

SIPDIS 

SIPDIS 

E.O. 12958:  DECL:09/18/17
TAGS: EFIN ECON PREL FR
SUBJECT: PAULSON DISCUSSES FINANCIAL MARKETS, IRAN WITH SARKOZY,
LAGARDE 

Classified by EMIN Seth Winnick for reasons 1.4 (b) and (d) 

¶1. (C) Summary: In successive meetings Treasury Secretary Hank
Paulson told Minister of Finance Christine Lagarde and President
Nicolas Sarkozy that it was important not to overreact to
financial market turbulence.  Sarkozy asked for U.S. support for
Dominique Strauss-Kahn's candidacy for IMF Managing Director.
Discussions also touched on continued cooperation on Iran,
Sarkozy's reform agenda and China.  End summary. 

¶2. (C) During a September 17 visit to France, Treasury Secretary
Paulson and accompanying delegation met with Sarkozy and
Lagarde, and lunched with leading representatives of France's
business community.  Sarkozy made a strong push for public U.S.
support for Dominique Strauss-Kahn's candidacy for Managing
Director of the IMF. Calling Strauss-Kahn the "smartest
socialist," Sarkozy said it was important not to encourage
President Putin by entertaining the candidacy Czech Josef
Tosovksy, who has KGB ties. 

¶3. (C) In response to Secretary Paulson's urging that France's
business and financial sectors reduce exposure to Iran, Sarkozy
said the United States could count on French cooperation in
toughening sanctions.  "There will be no double talk from
France. Stopping the bomb is more important than business
contracts."  But Sarkozy said unilateral legislation under
consideration in the U.S. Congress would be a "disaster" and
make the Iranians "very happy."  Sarkozy's diplomatic advisor
Jean-David Levitte noted that France would look to work, if
necessary, outside the Security Council, notably with EU
partners, on further measures against Iran. 

¶4. (C) On sub-prime-related market turbulence, Sarkozy said regulation was needed to forestall such events and minimize impact on global economic growth. Paulson underscored the importance of not over-reacting. It would take months, not weeks, for credit to be re-priced, but this was "not a major crisis." Several issues were coming into focus: conduits and other off-balance sheet funding vehicles had been a surprise; in the U.S. there was a need to look at mortgage origination, as well as the role of regulatory supervision and rating agencies. Asked for his views on French banks, Paulson said they had strong balance sheets and were profitable, though they, too, might have challenging off-balance sheet obligations. Paulson said the German Landesbanken were "the biggest problem," though they presented little systemic risk and would be bailed out by the German taxpayer. 

¶5. (C) Sarkozy asked for views on U.S. exchange rate policy.
Paulson said the United States supported a strong dollar.
Exchange rates ultimately were market-driven and the U.S. would
pursue policies that increased confidence in the U.S. economy.
In an exchange on China, Paulson said the U.S. message to China
was that if it wanted to be a "member of the club," it needed to
adhere to global norms on issues such as Sudan, Iran as well as
market-determined exchange rates.  The real concern was not that
China's economy would pass that of the United States, but that
China would reform too slowly and ultimately run into problems.
Paulson asked Sarkozy to "make a big impact" in China by
carrying a similar message. 

¶6. (C) In a brief exchange on trade issues, Sarkozy said France
was not afraid of globalization, but would insist on reciprocity
in its foreign relations.  Sarkozy was not shocked that the
United States defended its farmers: "we're doing the same."
Paulson pushed Sarkozy to help "drive Doha to a conclusion."
Sarkozy would "do (his) best," butQould not support a deal that
was not fair to France. 

Lagarde on Economic Reform, China and Financial Markets
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

¶7. (C) Finance Minister Lagarde sketched out GOF reform
priorities, saying the real focus would be on France's social
programs and associated costs.  Reform of the so-called "special
pension regimes" for certain categories of public workers
(including rail workers) was high on the agenda.  The GOF wanted
to bring such pensions in line with those of other public sector
employees.  Lagarde acknowledged that the issue had brought down
the Juppe government in the mid 1990s, but said the GOF would be
tough on pension reform.  Product market reform - including
changes to distribution and retail sectors - was also in the
offing. 

¶8. (C) Touching on issues subsequently raised by Sarkozy,
Lagarde said the GOF wanted strong cooperation on Iran.  She
suggested an informal U.S. Treasury - Ministry of Finance "task
force" be created to look at Iran-related banking issues.
Paulson noted that BNP-Paribas had suspended work in Iran, but
that Natixis had become more active.  Beyond the financial 

PARIS 00004109  002 OF 002 

sector, it would be important to look at the role of industrial
companies in Iran, Paulson said.  Although France's exports to
Iran were a small percentage of its overall exports, they
represented 8% of Iran's imports.  French Treasury director
Xavier Musca underscored the importance of the U.S. consulting
with the GOF before engaging directly with French banks on Iran. 

¶9. (C) Lagarde and Musca worried about China's (as well as the
UAE's) role as financier for Iran, as well as its undermining of
good governance efforts in Africa with easy money.  More
generally, Lagarde said the weakness of the yuan was "hurting
our economies."  The 9/14 informal Ecofin meeting in Porto saw
agreement to add exchange rate issues to the EU - China summit
agenda in November.  Lagarde suggested that Brazil and South
Africa be brought in on the issue.  Paulson said the U.S. was
pushing for reform and financial market opening in China, and
"this would help all investors."  He agreed to raise yuan
exchange rate issue with RSA Finance Minister Trevor Manuel in
the context of the November G-20 finance ministers meeting. 

¶10. (C) On financial market issues, Lagarde said the large French banks were strong, with minimal exposure to asset-backed securities. She was "fairly confident" that the smaller banks were also well-positioned. Market transparency and related issues had been discussed in Porto, and would be the subject of ongoing consultations within the EU. Paulson said the President's Working Group on Financial Markets was looking at similar issues, including conduits and off-balance-sheet items of regulated institutions. But it was important to guard against overreaction. In particular Paulson said he sensed that Europe was "obsessed" with hedge funds. Though the link to regulated institutions (via bank lending) was an important issue, it was hard to blame hedge funds for current market turbulence. Asked about sovereign wealth funds, Lagarde saidQ the issue was not as big a deal in France as it was in Germany. 

¶11. (U) The Paulson delegation has cleared this cable. 

STAPLETON


 
 
 
Source: #WikiLeaks – US, France Knew In 2007 Financial Collapse Was Imminent Due To Wall Street Fraud © Copying or redistribution of this material requires that this license must remain intact with attribution to the content source.Readers who viewed this page, also viewed: Facebook Pushing To Require Everyone’s Online Activity Be Tracked By The Government Hurricane Irene – Latest Forecasts, Projections – Real Time Satellite Imagery, Infrared, And Radar Real Time US Radiation Monitoring Of Japan Nuclear Radioactivity Fallout Feds Seek To Counter Imminent Bank Of America Collapse With Demand For Contigency Plans Still Fucked 1 Year Later, Scientist Studying BP Gulf Oil Spill Impact Tells CNN 9/11 ANALYSIS: 9/11 and America’s Secret Terror CampaignRelated PostsFinancial Terrorism in America: Over 1 Million Deaths Annually, 62 Million People With Zero Net Worth, As the Economic Elite Make Off With $46 TrillionThe Wall Street Pentagon Papers: Biggest Scam In World History Exposed – Are The Federal Reserve’s Crimes Too Big To Comprehend?Greece And ECB Blow Whistle On US Bank Fraud Scam That Caused 2008 Financial Crisis.Asia Times: S&P Downgrade Part Of Bilderbergers Plan To Control The Whole World!!Is The US Next? Germany Demands “Extensive Surrender Of National Fiscal Sovereignty” To Secure BailoutsAssociated Press: Social Security On Brink Of Insolvency Following $2.5 Trillion RobberyWorld On Verge Of Economic Collapse As European Leaders Prepare For Greek DefaultABCNNBBCBSFOX, The Public Message Is NOT Mixed!Obama  “Will Not Take Yes For An Answer” On Debt Ceiling DebateDebt Crisis Being Used as Shock Doctrine to Steal More Money from the American People to Give to the Richest 1%U.S. AAA Credit Rating Downgraded By Egan-Jones  — Moody’s and S&P Warn They May Follow Big Oil’s Long Term Energy Plan? A One World Government and Global Depopulation9/11 ANALYSIS: 9/11 and America’s Secret Terror CampaignSuper Congress: A Financial Death Panel That Will Help The Banks Loot & Rape America Experts Warn ‘America Will Lose Its Sovereignty’ As The Financial Armageddon Clock Ticks Away Alert From Ron Paul: DEBT CEILING BETRAYAL IMMINENT‏ — Help Fight It And Say #FuckYouWashington





#WikiLeaks: Israel Warns Chemical Weapons Will Be Used Against Peaceful Palestine Protests


Posted: 2011-09-03 23:20:23 UTC
Wikileaks Tel Aviv cable reveals Israel’s chemical weapon plan to crackdown on peaceful Palestine protests with a senior official quoted saying “we don’t do Gandhi very well.”
The cable reveals Isreal’s plan to take chemical weapons – specifically called “dirty water” which is used to simulate the effects of skunk spray – to crackdown on peace protests being held by Palestinians.
WikiLeaks 10TELAVIV344, IDF PLANS HARSHER METHODS WITH WEST BANK



Subject
Idf Plans Harsher Methods With West Bank Demonstrations


Origin
Embassy Tel Aviv (Israel)


Cable time
Tue, 16 Feb 2010 14:32 UTC


Classification
CONFIDENTIAL


Source
http://wikileaks.org/cable/2010/02/10TELAVIV344.html


History
First published on Thu, 1 Sep 2011 23:24 UTC




Viewing cable 10TELAVIV344, IDF PLANS HARSHER METHODS WITH WEST BANK
If you are new to these pages, please read an introduction on the structure of a cable as well as how to discuss them with others. See also the FAQs



Reference ID
Created
Released
Classification
Origin


10TELAVIV344
2010-02-16 14:32
2011-08-30 01:44
CONFIDENTIAL
Embassy Tel Aviv



 
VZCZCXRO4548
PP RUEHROV
DE RUEHTV #0344 0471432
ZNY CCCCC ZZH
P 161432Z FEB 10
FM AMEMBASSY TEL AVIV
TO RUEHC/SECSTATE WASHDC PRIORITY 5473
INFO RUEHXK/ARAB ISRAELI COLLECTIVE
 
C O N F I D E N T I A L TEL AVIV 000344 

SIPDIS 

E.O. 12958: DECL: 02/12/2020
TAGS: PREL MOPS KWBG IS
SUBJECT: IDF PLANS HARSHER METHODS WITH WEST BANK
DEMONSTRATIONS 

Classified By: Deputy Chief of Mission Luis G. Moreno for reasons 1.4 (
b) and (d). 

¶1. (C) In meetings with U.S. officials on February 4, OC
Central Command MG Avi Mizrachi expressed frustration with
on-going demonstrations in the West Bank, which he believes
are being orchestrated to increase tensions.  Mizrachi, whose
area of responsibility includes all of the West Bank and
Central Israel, warned that the IDF will start to be more
assertive in how it deals with these demonstrations, even
demonstrations that appear peaceful. 

¶2.  (C) After visiting two of these "so-called peaceful
demonstrations," Mizrachi said he did not know what they were
about; the villages were not near the barrier and they had no
problems with movement or settlers.  Mizrachi asserted that
the Palestinian villagers also do not know the reason for the
demonstrations and said that they were only demonstrating
because they were told to do so. 

¶3.  (C) Mizrachi warned that he will start sending his trucks
with "dirty water" to break up these protests, even if they
are not violent, because they serve no purpose other than
creating friction. (NOTE: dirty water is a reference to the
IDF's chemically treated water that duplicates the effects of
skunk spray.  End note.)  Mizrachi said he heard rumors that
Palestinian PM Salam Fayyad was planning to attend one of
these protests, adding that if Fayyad gets sprayed with dirty
water, it will make everyone look bad. 

¶4.  (C) On orders from Mizrachi, West Bank commander BG
Nitzan Alon and West Bank civil administrator BG Poli
Mordechi reportedly met with the Palestinian security force
commanders recently to deliver a strong message that they
must stop these demonstrations or the IDF will.  Mizrachi
asserted that he would prefer not to break up these
demonstrations, but will if he must.  Many of the
demonstrations are organized by "suspicious people," Mizrachi
said, and he plans on arresting organizers of demonstrations
that "serve no purpose" beyond exciting the population. 

¶5.  (C) COMMENT: Less violent demonstrations are likely to
stymie the IDF.  As MOD Pol-Mil chief Amos Gilad told USG
interlocutors recently, "we don't do Gandhi very well."  The
IDF impatience with these demonstrations may also be
connected to the recent arrests of foreign NGO workers with
expired or solely tourist visas who have been attending, and
often organizing, the protests.  The GoI reportedly ceased
issuing B1 work visas to the foreign staff of NGOs working in
the occupied territories; for several months now it has
restricted them and their families to B2 visitor visas with
varying durations and sometmies limited to single-entry.  On
February 10, officials from the MOI immigration enforcement
unit (the "Oz" unit) told PolOff that they made the arrests
of NGO workers in the West Bank at the request of the IDF.
However, the court ruled that the Oz unit cannot operate
beyond the Green Line, and subsequently released the
detainees, who were mostly European.  The Oz unit officials
told PolOff that they will not challenge that ruling and have
no further operations planned in the West Bank. END COMMENT.
Cunningham

Source: #WikiLeaks: Israel Warns Chemical Weapons Will Be Used Against Peaceful Palestine Protests © Copying or redistribution of this material requires that this license must remain intact with attribution to the content source.Readers who viewed this page, also viewed: Feds Charge Man As Enemy Combatant Supporting Terrorism For Uploading Youtube Video Feds Allowing Tritium Radiation Catastrophe Cover Up At North Anna VA Nuclear Plant? Flesh Eating Disease In Cocaine Found In New York, Los Angeles – Cocaine Supply Of Entire Nation May Be Affected How Globalism Has Destroyed Our Jobs, Businesses And National Wealth In 10 Easy Steps Presenting Goldman Sachs Top Secret “The World Is Ending So Let’s All Profit” Report Real Time US Radiation Monitoring Of Japan Nuclear Radioactivity FalloutRelated Posts#WikiLeaks – US, France Knew In 2007 Financial Collapse Was Imminent Due To Wall Street FraudFacebook Now Helping Governments Spy On And Arrest Peaceful ActivistsIsrael on Alert as Pro-Palestinian Activists Plan ‘Fly-In’ Feds Allowing Tritium Radiation Catastrophe Cover Up At North Anna VA Nuclear Plant?CIA Using Local Police, NYPD, To Illegally Spy On American CitizensReport: 1 in 3 Pakistan Drone Strikes and 1in 7 of all CIA Drone Strikes Kills a ChildLondon Riots: UK To Implement “Zero Tolerance” Police StateSenator Bernie Sanders Reveals The Top Ten U.S. Corporate Tax Dodgers9/11 Compensation Fund Won’t Cover Cancer Costs After Feds Covered Up Carcinogens In Ground Zero AirSMOKING GUN: PREPARATION FOR WAR ON THE PEOPLEGuardian: Let’s Stop Assuming the Police are on Our SideWill Attempts By Politicians To Steal Police Pensions Be The Wake-Up Call Cops Need?How Globalism Has Destroyed Our Jobs, Businesses And National Wealth In 10 Easy Steps9/11 ANALYSIS: 9/11 and America’s Secret Terror CampaignIsraeli Protestors Ready For Tomorrow’s ‘March of the Million’Wikileaks Cable Suggests The US Executed Handcuffed Women And Children Under 5, Including An Infant





Police Kill Autistic Man, Taser Mentally Disabled Man Holding Hands Up To Surrender


Posted: 2011-09-03 05:06:33 UTC
Video captures police killing autistic man, tasering surrending mentally disabled man, after lethal beating cover ups as cops seek life sentences for filming officers.
Russia Today reports on the continued streak of police brutality, police killings and police murders of innocent people across the nation.

More and more of these incidents continue to show up on the internet with video proof contradicting the official police story, which explains why police are pushing for extremely harsh sentences — the latest being up life in prison — for video taping police while on duty.



The state of Illinois is trying to charge Michael Allisonn with five counts of wiretapping, each punishable by four to 15 years in prison.
Michael Allison refuses plea deal and is taking the potential life sentence head on in an effort to help fight laws against recording police.

The latest incidents follow earlier reports that >cops beat a man nearly to death, hospitalizing him in critical condition, for riding a bicycle without a headlight at night.

Police Severely Beat Man Half To Death For Bicycling Without Headlight
Police Beat A Man Nearly To Death, Hospitalizing Him In Critical Condition, For Riding A Bicycle Without A Headlight And Somehow The Dash-cam Video Is Unavailable.
This is just the latest string of violent police beating and police brutality cases which so far have gone unpunished stemming across the entire nation. All have the same mo of police claiming the person they severely beat or killed was resisting arrest.


Police Beat Man Half To Death For Riding Bicycle Without Headlight

A commenter on Godlike Production writes:
Nice, they run this guy down, knock him from his bike, then beat and kick him, then charge him for “resisting arrest.” And, surprise surprise, the dashcam video is somehow “unavailable.”
Thank you our police/nanny state guardians , for keeping us safe — “your bicycle needs a headlight for your own safety, and we’ll run you down and beat you if you don’t have one … all for your protection, of course.”
 
The incidents today report on the police tasering a mentally disabled man holding his hands up to surrender as eyewitnesses warn the police the man is mentally ill.
The police also engage in the use of excessive force resulting in the brutal police killing of another autistic man.
Meanwhile California residents are still protesting the senseless act of the police beating to death, and the continual attempt to cover up, a gentle mentally ill homeless man named Kelly Thomas.

Cover Up Caught On Camera: 6 Police Officers Taser And Beat Mentally-ill Homeless Man To Death
Video footage of 6 Fullerton, CA police officers tasering and beating a homeless man to death exposes a cover up that local officials refuse to answer questions about.


Shocking: This picture shows the extent of the injuries Thomas received after being beaten up by six police officers

The photo above shows the injuries sustained by Kelly Thomas, homeless man described as a gentle and mentally-ill  man, who was the victim of a police beating by 6 Fullerton police officers.
Read The Rest…
Russia Today reports:

Police Use Excessive Force Against Mentally Disabled
Sadly we have more stories to report on police using excessive force across the country. We’ll share with you a story out of Florida, where an Autistic man was killed by police. The next story is from Arizona where a mentally handicapped man, who was harassing individuals outside of a restaurant, was confronted by a taser-wielding cop.
Source: Police Kill Autistic Man, Taser Mentally Disabled Man Holding Hands Up To Surrender © Copying or redistribution of this material requires that this license must remain intact with attribution to the content source.Readers who viewed this page, also viewed: #WikiLeaks: Israel Warns Chemical Weapons Will Be Used Against Peaceful Palestine Protests #WikiLeaks – US, France Knew In 2007 Financial Collapse Was Imminent Due To Wall Street Fraud Cop Who Killed 2 People In Last 5 years, Including 15 Year Boy, Caught On Taping Beating Man Presenting Goldman Sachs Top Secret “The World Is Ending So Let’s All Profit” Report Unbelievable! Court Rules US Taxpayers, Not BP Or Transocean, Are Liable For Gulf Oil Spill Clean Up Costs Daily Doublespeak 4-7-2010 — Nuclear Expert Says Feds Hiding Truth About Japan Nuclear Reactor DisasterRelated PostsChief Says No Cover Up In Fatal Police Beating Of A Hog Tied Homeless ManCover Up Caught On Camera: 6 Police Officers Taser And Beat Mentally-ill Homeless Man To Death America IS A Police State – The Handling Of Deadly Police Brutality Cases Proves ItCops Kill 1 Person A Week With Tasers; Latest Victim Is A Black Boy Tased To Death Criminal Charges Filed For Videotaping And Exposing Cover Up Of a Brutal Police BeatingThe Guardian, Al-Jazeera Set Straight Corporate Media Lies About London RiotsFederal officials are circulating to all 18,000 U.S. law enforcement agencies a… civil rights video??!!Police Beating A 16 Year Old Girl Sparked London Riots ViolenceCop Who Killed 2 People In Last 5 years, Including 15 Year Boy, Caught On Taping Beating ManPolice Beat, Taser, And Mace, Handcuffed Man Lying Naked In the Snow Causing Cracked Ribs and Punctured LungsPolice Severely Beat Man Half To Death For Bicycling Without HeadlightGuardian: Let’s Stop Assuming the Police are on Our SidePolice Beat, Taser, And Mace, Handcuffed Man Causing Cracked Ribs and Punctured LungsPoliticians And Police Corruption Latest Targets Of 3 Continent Phone-Hacking Scandal ShakedownEX-DEA Agent Says CIA Performed Behavior Modification Aerial Spray Over CaliforniaOrlando Police Steal Food From Hungry Children Arresting 6 People For Trying To Feed The Homeless





Mega Disasters – Japan Great Earthquake 2011 Documentary


Posted: 2011-09-03 00:49:43 UTC
One hour Mega Disasters documentary on the Japan Great Earthquake 2011 covering the loss of life, destruction and the ongoing level 7 nuclear meltdowns at Fukushima.
Uploaded by worldethq on Aug 25, 2011
The 2011 earthquake off the Pacific coast of Tohoku, also known as the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake, or the Great East Japan Earthquake, (Japanese: “Eastern Japan Great Earthquake Disaster” (Higashi Nihon Daishinsai)) was a magnitude 9.0 (Mw) undersea megathrust earthquake off the coast of Japan that occurred at 14:46 JST (05:46 UTC) on Friday, 11 March 2011, with the epicenter approximately 70 kilometres (43 mi) east of the Oshika Peninsula of Tōhoku and the hypocenter at an underwater depth of approximately 32 km (20 mi).
It was the most powerful known earthquake to have hit Japan, and one of the five most powerful earthquakes in the world overall since modern record-keeping began in 1900. It was so powerful the island of Honshu was moved 8 feet eastward. The earthquake triggered extremely destructive tsunami waves of up to 40.5 metres (133 ft) in Miyako, Iwate, Tōhoku. In some cases traveling up to 10 km (6 mi) inland.
In addition to loss of life and destruction of infrastructure, the tsunami caused a number of nuclear accidents, primarily the ongoing level 7 meltdowns at three reactors in the Fukushima I Nuclear Power Plant complex, and the associated evacuation zones affecting hundreds of thousands of residents.


Source: Mega Disasters – Japan Great Earthquake 2011 Documentary © Copying or redistribution of this material requires that this license must remain intact with attribution to the content source.Readers who viewed this page, also viewed: Ongoing Scandal – Obama Lying About Japan Nuclear Radiation In US Daily Doublespeak 4-7-2010 — Nuclear Expert Says Feds Hiding Truth About Japan Nuclear Reactor Disaster Watch Simulation Of 3 Million Gallons Of Dumped Radioactive Seawater Spread Through Pacific Ocean Scientists Successfully Implant Chip That Controls The Brain Allowing Thoughts, Memory And Behavior To Be Transferred From One Brain To Another Fort Calhoun Nuclear Plant Underwater- References of 10 Mile Mandatory Evacuation Area Scrubbed From News Sites Feds Now “Duty-Bound To Confiscate” Silver And Gold Liberty Dollars As Illegal ContrabandRelated PostsFukushima Is Continually Blasting All Of Us With High Levels Of Cesium, Strontium And Plutonium And Will Slowly Kill Millions For Years To ComeTwo Nuclear Reactors Taken Offline, 9 Declare Unusual Events, After Virginia Earthquake Head of Fukushima health study says 100 mSv/yr OK for pregnant moms Anna Nuclear Plant Forced To Vent Steam Following Power Failure From Virginia EarthquakeMajor Paper : Canada Government Covered Up “Massive Amounts Of Radiation In Air”Rapid Spike In Radiation Halts Clean-Up At Fukushima Nuclear Power PlantBackup Generator Cooling Nuclear Power Plant Shutdown By Virginia Quake FailsVideo: Popular MSNBC Anchor Reports the Media Is Stifling the Truth About FukushimaAl-Jazeera Blasts The Money Trail Funding The Nuclear Industry Cover Up Of The Fukushima DisasterJapan Issues Belated Ban On Radioactive Fukushima Beef After Allowing To Be Sold In StoresScientific Experts: Fukushima Potentially Worse Than 20 Chernobyls – Governments Hiding The TruthFrom Japan To Seattle People Are Breathing In Virtually Undetectable Hot Radiation ParticlesAssociated Press Rails Japan Government For Nuclear Radiation Data Cover UpAfter Over A Week US Media Finally Acknowledges Fukushima Nuclear Meltdown In 3 ReactorsTEPCO: Pacific Ocean Radiation Found At Levels Up To 1,000 Normal In Seawater Up To 100 Feet Deep.TEPCO: Pacific Ocean Radiation Found At Levels Up To 1,000 Normal In Seawater Up To 100 Feet Deep.





Epic Santelli Rant – The Real Spectacle Is Making Trillions In Debt And Robbing The Poor To Pay It Back


Posted: 2011-09-03 01:19:08 UTC
Santelli rants the real spectacle is running up of in trillions of debt in the first place and now stripping the poor of everything they have to pay it back
“The darn spectacle was getting up to these trillion dollars worth of debt and then thinking some action to try to address that is the spectacle is exactly half but backwards just as the interpretation if the government dumps a lot of money in the economy, they’ll look like they’re doing something,” says CNBC’s Rick Santelli.
Responding to a comment that the real shame was the Washington failed to compromise, Santelli says “What a great compromise to be Greece. What a great compromise! You talk about compromise. HURRAH! We compromise! Greece, here we come! Get the flaming cheese going!”
The response, “That’s not the compromise. That’s not the future, rick. The future’s not the idea that if we compromise we are going to be Greece. We compromise by…”
Santelli responds, [caps because he is yelling, flaming mad, and pissed off at this point] “YOU’RE NOT ADDRESSING THE PROBLEM WHEN YOU TALK ABOUT COMPROMISE AND CUTTING ENTITLEMENTS. YOU ARE STRIPPING THE POOR OF EVERYTHING THEY HAVE. THEY WON’T HAVE ANYTHING WHEN THE COUNTRY IS BROKE AND THE LINES AT THE UNEMPLOYMENT WILL BE EXPONENTIALLY LARGER. WHAT A GREAT STRATEGY THAT IS!”

CNBC reports:


Santelli’s Rant on Govt. $ Printing
Fri 02 Sep 11 | 08:30 AM ET
“The darn spectacle was getting up to these trillion dollars worth of debt and then thinking some action to try to address that is the spectacle is exactly half but backwards just as the interpretation if the government dumps a lot of money in the economy, they’ll look like they’re doing something,” says CNBC’s Rick Santelli.


Source: Epic Santelli Rant – The Real Spectacle Is Making Trillions In Debt And Robbing The Poor To Pay It Back © Copying or redistribution of this material requires that this license must remain intact with attribution to the content source.Readers who viewed this page, also viewed: Daily Doublespeak 4-7-2010 — Nuclear Expert Says Feds Hiding Truth About Japan Nuclear Reactor Disaster Debt Crisis Being Used as Shock Doctrine to Steal More Money from the American People to Give to the Richest 1% TSA Police Beat Unsuspecting Girl At Airport Causing Brain Damage At Reagan National Airport #WikiLeaks – US, France Knew In 2007 Financial Collapse Was Imminent Due To Wall Street Fraud Flesh Eating Disease In Cocaine Found In New York, Los Angeles – Cocaine Supply Of Entire Nation May Be Affected The Great Recession Of 2007 Never Ended – We Are In Fact In A DepressionRelated PostsFinancial Terrorism in America: Over 1 Million Deaths Annually, 62 Million People With Zero Net Worth, As the Economic Elite Make Off With $46 TrillionSuper Congress: A Financial Death Panel That Will Help The Banks Loot & Rape America#WikiLeaks – US, France Knew In 2007 Financial Collapse Was Imminent Due To Wall Street FraudThe Great Recession Of 2007 Never Ended – We Are In Fact In A Depression Tsunami Of Public Rage Unleashed As #FuckYouWashington Hashtag Takes Twitter By StormCongress In Secret Talks To Chop Social Security And Medicare To Avoid Apocalyptic Debt DefaultDebt Crisis Being Used as Shock Doctrine to Steal More Money from the American People to Give to the Richest 1%World On Verge Of Economic Collapse As European Leaders Prepare For Greek DefaultPeaceful Protests In Spain Turn Violent After Police Shoot And Beat Protesters And JournalistsCongress Robbing $400 Million From Katrina Victims To Pay For BP Gulf Oil SpillAsia Times: S&P Downgrade Part Of Bilderbergers Plan To Control The Whole World!!S&P Board Fires CEO For Telling The Truth, To Be Replaced With Globalist PuppetAssociated Press: Social Security On Brink Of Insolvency Following $2.5 Trillion RobberyCorporate Media – CNN – Candy Crowley Lies About Ron Paul Polls And Electability ExposedGreat Depression 2.0: Britian Begins Stealing Bank Deposits Ahead Of The Global Financial Collapse.The Guardian, Al-Jazeera Set Straight Corporate Media Lies About London Riots





Police Severely Beat Man Half To Death For Bicycling Without Headlight


Posted: 2011-09-02 21:13:24 UTC
Police Beat A Man Nearly To Death, Hospitalizing Him In Critical Condition, For Riding A Bicycle Without A Headlight And Somehow The Dash-cam Video Is Unavailable.
This is just the latest string of violent police beating and police brutality cases which so far have gone unpunished stemming across the entire nation. All have the same mo of police claiming the person they severely beat or killed was resisting arrest.
Police Beat Man Half To Death For Riding Bicycle Without Headlight
A commenter on Godlike Production writes:
Nice, they run this guy down, knock him from his bike, then beat and kick him, then charge him for “resisting arrest.” And, surprise surprise, the dashcam video is somehow “unavailable.”
Thank you our police/nanny state guardians , for keeping us safe — “your bicycle needs a headlight for your own safety, and we’ll run you down and beat you if you don’t have one … all for your protection, of course.”
 

Local Texas NBC station KRIS TV reports:

Attorneys Say Local Police Officer Severely Beat Unarmed Man
ARANSAS PASS, Texas -
Martin Garcia Ortiz is in critical condition after an incident allegedly involving Aransas Pass police back on August 10th.
The family and their attorneys say they believe a rogue police officer may be to blame for Ortiz’s severe injuries.
48-year-old Martin Garcia Ortiz is a life long Aransas Pass resident, though for the past few weeks he’s been at Spohn Memorial Hospital in Corpus Christi.
On August 10th, Ortiz’s family says he was riding his bicycle home and just a few blocks away something happened to put him in critical condition.
Just before midnight, the family’s attorneys say they believe police tried stopping Ortiz for not having a headlight on his bike. Then, the situation took a dramatic turn when one officers allegedly knocked Ortiz to the ground.
“Either with his vehicle or with his person pushed him over on his bicycle. He fell over to the street,” said Stephen Carriganan, attorney for the family.
[...]
They say, they believe when Ortiz was already on the ground bleeding the officer got out and punched or kicked him causing even more injuries.
[...]
Police are charging Ortiz with public intoxication and resisting arrest.
The family’s attorneys report the police department has told them the dash-cam video from the police unit was- for some reason- unable to record the incident.
[...]
The family says they have been contacted by the Texas Ranger who are investigating the incident.
They’re asking anyone who may have witnessed the incident to come forward and contact the Rangers at [512] 424-2160.
Source: KRIS / NBC
Source: Police Severely Beat Man Half To Death For Bicycling Without Headlight © Copying or redistribution of this material requires that this license must remain intact with attribution to the content source.Readers who viewed this page, also viewed: Criminal Charges Filed For Videotaping And Exposing Cover Up Of a Brutal Police Beating America IS A Police State – The Handling Of Deadly Police Brutality Cases Proves It Cover Up Caught On Camera: 6 Police Officers Taser And Beat Mentally-ill Homeless Man To Death Feds Now “Duty-Bound To Confiscate” Silver And Gold Liberty Dollars As Illegal Contraband Hurricane Irene: ‘EXTREME THREAT LEVEL’ Warning Issued For Northeast By The Weather Channel Flesh Eating Disease In Cocaine Found In New York, Los Angeles – Cocaine Supply Of Entire Nation May Be AffectedRelated PostsPolice Kill Autistic Man, Taser Mentally Disabled Man Holding Hands Up To SurrenderChief Says No Cover Up In Fatal Police Beating Of A Hog Tied Homeless ManFederal officials are circulating to all 18,000 U.S. law enforcement agencies a… civil rights video??!!America IS A Police State – The Handling Of Deadly Police Brutality Cases Proves ItCriminal Charges Filed For Videotaping And Exposing Cover Up Of a Brutal Police BeatingThe Guardian, Al-Jazeera Set Straight Corporate Media Lies About London RiotsLondon Riots.  The BBC will never replay this. Darcus Howe On Police Brutality and CorruptionGuardian: The Ignored London Riots Context – 333 Deaths In Police Custody, 0 ConvictionsPolice Beating A 16 Year Old Girl Sparked London Riots ViolenceCover Up Caught On Camera: 6 Police Officers Taser And Beat Mentally-ill Homeless Man To Death Anonymous-Led Protest Against San Francisco BART Police Turn ViolentEmail Reveals Massive Phone Hacking Cover Up – Scandal Was “Widely Discussed” At News Of The World Cops Kill 1 Person A Week With Tasers; Latest Victim Is A Black Boy Tased To Death UK Disregards “Concerns About Human Rights” And Authorizes Shooting Of London Riots ProtestorsAnarchy In The UK – London Riots Sparked By Police Beating Of 16 Year Old Girl Enter 3rd DayScrubbed – Explosive London Riots BBC Interview:  Violence Sparked By Police Beating 16 Year Old Girl





Feds Charge Man As Enemy Combatant Supporting Terrorism For Uploading Youtube Video


Posted: 2011-09-02 23:33:21 UTC
Feds Charge  Man As Enemy Combatant Supporting Terrorism For Uploading YouTube Video, Subjecting Him To Permanent Imprisonment, Torture, And Lethal Beatings Without A Trial
Take freedom of speech and other personal liberties — including protections against cruel and unusual punishment, right to face your accuser, and right to trial by jury — and throw them right out the window. All for the crime of uploading a YouTube.
That is what a 24 year old Virginia man, Jubair Ahmad, faces as the feds charge him with providing support for terrorism for allegedly uploading a propaganda video. The crime comes with the dubious distinction that the accused are treated as if they are actually terrorists or as the U.S. government labels them “enemies combatants”. With the declaration of being an enemy combatant the rights and protections engraved into the Constitution with the full force of our founding father’s very own flesh and blood are instantly nullified.
That’s right. The Department of Justice of the great United States of America has charged a Jubair Ahmad, a 24 year old Woodbridge, Virginia man, of providing support for terrorism because he allegedly uploaded a propaganda video to YouTube. The accusation alone instantly classifies the man as an ‘enemy combatant’  and ‘clear and present danger’. Such persons who are a ‘threat to national security’ have absolutely no rights. To make matters worse, businesses and nations aren’t allowed to do business with such so-called ‘terrorists’ or they will be declared a terrorist themselves. That means a lawyer who takes up his case can be charge with providing support for terrorism. That is  if the United States government  even decides to honor habeas corpus and give the man a trial in the first place. Our beloved supreme court has ruled that ‘enemy combatants’ can be abducted, tortured, assassinated, and even detained for ever without a trial because the constitution does not apply to them. Even worse, the lucky few who are released after being declared innocent have no right to legal recourse because revealing the details of their detention and torture is also a threat to national security.
This is what the ‘war on terror’ has escalated to, which we have been brainwashed by our government is necessary to protect our liberties from our enemies.
The video in question reportedly showed the leader of a group designated as a terrorist organization along with other purported “jihadi martyrs” and clips armored trucks exploding from the detonation of IEDs.
The Feds by uploading the propaganda video the man has committed the crime of providing support to terrorists organization, which qualifies the man to have all constitutional rights to be suspended and to be detained indefinitely without trial. As we have seen in past cases, the suspension of the constitutional “inalienable rights” for the so-called enemy combatants allows the executive branch of the federal government, including the military and CIA, to become the judge, jury and executioner in such cases. Of course without the constitutional right to the protection against cruel and unusual punishment the feds are now free to beat and torture the man to death, as they have done in past cases.
To reinforce their charges, the feds further allege Ahmad received ‘religious training’ from the ‘Lashkar-e-Taiba’ ‘terrorist group’ when he was a teenager while he still lived in Pakistan before moving to the United States. The State Department claims the group operates in the disputed Kashmir territory along the Pakistan and India border.
 
MSNBC reports:

Virginian accused of making YouTube terror video
Federal officials allege he trained with militants behind Mumbai attack
A Virginia man who came to the US from Pakistan has been charged with supporting Lashkar-e-Taiba, the radical Islamist terrorist group behind the 2008 shooting attack in Mumbai, India.
Justice Department officials said Friday that Jubair Ahmad, 24, of Woodbridge, received religious training from the terrorist group as a teenager in Pakistan and later attended one of its training camps.
He came to the United States in 2007 with his family. He’s been under investigation for two years, ever since the FBI got a tip that he might be connected to the group, the officials said.
Court documents say that last fall, he produced and uploaded a propaganda video to YouTube on behalf of of the group, showing its leader and purporting to show “jihadi martyrs” and armored trucks exploding after having been hit by improvised explosive devices. Investigators say when asked about the video, Jubair falsely denied having anything to do with it.
The State Department has designated Lashkar-e-Taiba as a terrorist group. It is among nearly a dozen rebel groups operating in the disputed Himalayan territory of Kashmir.
[...]
Source: MSNBC
 
Source: Feds Charge Man As Enemy Combatant Supporting Terrorism For Uploading Youtube Video © Copying or redistribution of this material requires that this license must remain intact with attribution to the content source.Readers who viewed this page, also viewed: U.S Government Smuggled Missiles, Grenades And Other Military Grade Weapons To Mexico Drug Cartels Police Kill Autistic Man, Taser Mentally Disabled Man Holding Hands Up To Surrender Presenting Goldman Sachs Top Secret “The World Is Ending So Let’s All Profit” Report Amid Charges Of Abuse Of Power FBI Chief’s Job Extended In Violation Of 10 Year Term Limit America IS A Police State – The Handling Of Deadly Police Brutality Cases Proves It Congress To Vote On Declaration Of World War 3 — An Endless War With No Borders, No Clear EnemiesRelated PostsCitizen Spies And Brutal Torture Foreshadow What American Citizens Face In The Domestic War on TerrorSMOKING GUN: PREPARATION FOR WAR ON THE PEOPLEFederal officials are circulating to all 18,000 U.S. law enforcement agencies a… civil rights video??!!Oslo Terror Attacks Being Used To Justify Sinister Cyber Surveillance ProgramsU.S Government Smuggled Missiles, Grenades And Other Military Grade Weapons To Mexico Drug CartelsThe Official 2001 FBI Docs On Urban Moving Systems And The 9-11-2001 Dancing Israelis IncidentMartial Law: Corporate Media Hints At Military Plans To Take On The American People During Domestic Civil Unrest57 Senators Sign Letter To Protect Second Amendment Rights From U.N. Arms TreatyAmid Charges Of Abuse Of Power FBI Chief’s Job Extended In Violation Of 10 Year Term LimitShocking!! Man Explains Why He Loves Orlando Police For Arresting People That Feed The HomelessInnocent Man Imprisoned For 5 Years Survived CIA Electroshock Torture, Witnessed Lethal BeatingsHigh-Level American Officials Admit that the United States Uses False Flag Terror … And Warn of Future AttacksCongress To Vote On Declaration Of World War 3 — An Endless War With No Borders, No Clear EnemiesAmerica IS A Police State – The Handling Of Deadly Police Brutality Cases Proves ItAn Example of How The Government Pushes Propaganda Via the Mainstream MediaFacebook Pushing To Require Everyone’s Online Activity Be Tracked By The Government





Presenting Goldman Sachs Top Secret “The World Is Ending So Let’s All Profit” Report


Posted: 2011-09-02 20:43:57 UTC
Here It Is: Presenting Goldman’ Sachs Top Secret “State Of The Markets – Long and Short Risk Strategies” — or as Tyler Durden calls it “The World Is Ending So Let’s All Profit” — Report
Goldman Sachs Top Secret Report
Zero Hedge has posted a ‘top secret’ report on how Goldman Sachs is betting the markets will play out that has been presented to their top clients.
The report is pretty dismal with Goldman’s Crystal ball projecting images of widespread financial turmoil and even bank contagion collapse across the Eurozone.
Tyler Durden summarizes how Goldman is trading the turmoil.

Here It Is: Presenting Goldman’s “The World Is Ending So Let’s All Profit” Report
 Submitted by Tyler Durden
09/02/2011 13:06 -0400
A few days ago the WSJ made waves by disclosing that Goldman was in the process of recreating another “Abacus”, by pitching to clients a global “pain trade” presentation created by Goldman’s Alan Brazil, which, among others, speculated that funding needs for European banks would be far, far greater than the IMF-proposed $200 billion, and would in fact be closer to $1 trillion. This emphasis is actually odd, because Goldman focuses as much if not more attention on the end of the Chinese bubble as it does on the end of the European ponzi. It of course also did the usual Goldman thing, which is to allow select clients to piggyback with its prop, pardon flow, desk, in recreating the same fiasco for which it already had to pay a half a billion settlement to the SEC last year. Yet to date, nobody had actually seen a public version of this report….That is, nobody, until now – presenting Goldman’s top secret “State of the Markets – Long and Short Risk Strategies”
In summary, Goldman proposed key trades for Europe are:

Buy 5Y Protection on iTraxx Series 9 9-100% Tranche
Buy 6 Month EURCHF One-Touch Put Option

While on China Goldman recommends its best clients to the following:

Buy a Short Equity Total Return Swap on Chinese Banks
Buy a USD put CNY Call Option
Buy Short-Dated CNH Bonds (Dim Sum Bonds)
Buy AUDUSD Put Spreads or Receiver Swaptions on AUD Swap Rates
Buy Copper Put Option spread

Full report below:
[...]
h/t Lloyd Blankfein
Source:Zero Hedge
The Economic Collapse Blog adds:

Even Goldman Sachs Secretly Believes That An Economic Collapse Is Coming
Goldman Sachs is doing it again.  Goldman is telling the public that everything is going to be just fine, but meanwhile they are advising their top clients to bet on a huge financial collapse.  On August 16th, a 54 page report authored by Goldman strategist Alan Brazil was distributed to institutional clients.  The general public was not intended to see this report.  Fortunately, some folks over at the Wall Street Journalgot their hands on a copy and they have filled us in on some of the details.  It turns out that Goldman Sachs secretly believes that an economic collapse is coming, and they have some very interesting ideas about how to make money in the turbulent financial environment that we will soon be entering.  In the report, Brazil says that the U.S. debt problem cannot be solved with more debt, that the European sovereign debt crisis is going to get even worse and that there are large numbers of financial institutions in Europe that are on the verge of collapse.  If this is what people at the highest levels of the financial world are talking about, perhaps we should all start paying attention.
There is a tremendous amount of fear in the global financial community right now.  As I wrote about the other day, the financial world is about to hit the panic button.  Things could start falling apart at any time.  Most of these big banks will not admit how bad things are publicly, but privately there is a whole lot of freaking out going on.
According to the Wall Street Journal, Brazil believes that “as much as $1 trillion in capital may be needed to shore up European banks; that small businesses in the U.S., a past driver of job production, are still languishing; and that China’s growth may not be sustainable.”
Perhaps most startling of all is what the report has to say about the debt problems of the United States and Europe.
For example, this following excerpt from the report sounds like it could have come straight from The Economic Collapse Blog….
“Solving a debt problem with more debt has not solved the underlying problem. In the US, Treasury debt growth financed the US consumer but has not had enough of an impact on job growth. Can the US continue to depreciate the world’s base currency?”
Remember, this statement was not written by some guy on the Internet.  A top Goldman Sachs analyst put it into a report for institutional investors.
The report also goes into great detail about the financial crisis in Europe.  Brazil writes about how the euro is headed for trouble and about how dozens of financial institutions in Europe could potentially be in danger of collapse.
But in any environment Goldman Sachs thinks that it can make money.  The following is how Business Insider summarized the advice that Brazil gave in the report regarding how to make money off of the impending collapse in Europe….

Buy a six-month put option on the Euro versus the Swiss Franc, thus betting the Euro will drop against the Franc (the Franc being the currency that an official Goldman report recently referred to as the most overvalued in the world)
Buy a five-year credit default swap on an index of European corporate debt—the iTraxx 9. This is a bet that some of these companies will default, and your insurance policy, the CDS, will pay off

This is so typical of Goldman Sachs.  They will say one thing publicly and then turn around and do the total opposite privately.
For example, prior to the financial crisis of 2008, Goldman Sachs was putting together mortgage-backed securities that they knew were garbage and marketing them to investors as AAA-rated investments.  On top of that, Goldman then often privately bet against those exact same securities.
The CEO of Goldman Sachs has even acknowledged that the investment bank engaged in “improper” behavior during 2006 and 2007.
For much more on the history of all this, please see this article: “How Goldman Sachs Made Tens Of Billions Of Dollars From The Economic Collapse Of America In Four Easy Steps“.
So will Goldman Sachs ever get into serious trouble for any of this?
No, of course not.
Yeah, they will get a slap on the wrist from time to time, but the reality is that the top levels of the federal government are absolutely littered with ex-employees of Goldman Sachs.  Goldman is one of the “too big to fail” banks and they are going to continue to do pretty much whatever they feel like doing.
Sadly, the power of the “too big to fail” banks just continues to grow.  At this point, the “big six” U.S. banks (Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan Chase, Citigroup, Bank of America, and Wells Fargo) now possess assets equivalent to approximately 60 percent of America’s gross national product.
Goldman Sachs was the second biggest donor to Barack Obama’s campaign in 2008, so don’t expect Obama to do anything about any of this.
We have a financial system that is deeply, deeply corrupt and all of that corruption is a big reason why things are falling apart.
Sadly, the 54 page report mentioned above is right – we really are facing a global debt meltdown and we really are heading for an economic collapse.
You aren’t going to hear the truth from the mainstream media or from our politicians because “keeping people calm” is much more of a priority to them than telling the truth is.
The debt crisis in the United States is unsustainable and the debt crisis in Europe is unsustainable.  Right now we are in the calm before the storm, and nobody knows exactly when the storm is going to strike.
But let there be no doubt – it is coming.
The amazing prosperity that we have enjoyed for the last several decades has largely been a debt-fueled illusion.  It was a great party while it lasted, but now it is coming to an end and the aftermath of the coming crash is going to be absolutely horrific.
Keep watch and get prepared.  We don’t know exactly when the collapse is going to happen, but it is definitely on the way and now even Goldman Sachs is admitting that.
Source: Economic Collapse Blog

Source: Presenting Goldman Sachs Top Secret “The World Is Ending So Let’s All Profit” Report © Copying or redistribution of this material requires that this license must remain intact with attribution to the content source.Readers who viewed this page, also viewed: Silent Great Depression Style Run On Greece Banks Spreads To Banks Across Europe TSA Police Beat Unsuspecting Girl At Airport Causing Brain Damage At Reagan National Airport US Threatens UN Funding Cut To Force Repeal of Anti-Israel Resolutions And Kill Palestine Statehood Vote Daily Doublespeak 4-7-2010 — Nuclear Expert Says Feds Hiding Truth About Japan Nuclear Reactor Disaster Forget Too Big To Fail — Germany Says Italy’s $2.5 Trillion Debt Is Too Big To Bailout Radioactive Rainwater in Saint Louis Missouri Makes Geiger Counter Go NUTS!Related PostsTyler Durden, You Are Scaring The Living Shit Out Of Me With This Talk!Silent Great Depression Style Run On Greece Banks Spreads To Banks Across Europe#WikiLeaks – US, France Knew In 2007 Financial Collapse Was Imminent Due To Wall Street FraudIs The US Next? Germany Demands “Extensive Surrender Of National Fiscal Sovereignty” To Secure BailoutsWall Street May Not Like This — German Economy Growth Stalls – GDP Growth Drops To Only 0.1% The Wall Street Pentagon Papers: Biggest Scam In World History Exposed – Are The Federal Reserve’s Crimes Too Big To Comprehend?U.S. AAA Credit Rating Downgraded By Egan-Jones  — Moody’s and S&P Warn They May Follow Greek Army Threatens Military Coup Sparking Fears of Military Uprisings And Civil Wars Breaking Out Across All Of EuropeGreek Protestors Firebomb Riot Police In Protest Of IMF Bank Bailout LoanGreece And ECB Blow Whistle On US Bank Fraud Scam That Caused 2008 Financial Crisis.S&P Board Fires CEO For Telling The Truth, To Be Replaced With Globalist PuppetMarket Alert: Silver Trading Halted Following A 10% Price Jump On The Thailand ExchangeRevolution Spreads To Germany: Cars Of Hundreds Of “Fat Cats” BurnedStarbucks CEO Calls For CEO Boycott Of Campaign Contributions And Strikes Agianst Our PoliticiansFinancial Terrorism in America: Over 1 Million Deaths Annually, 62 Million People With Zero Net Worth, As the Economic Elite Make Off With $46 TrillionForget Too Big To Fail — Germany Says Italy’s $2.5 Trillion Debt Is Too Big To Bailout





Feds Seek To Counter Imminent Bank Of America Collapse With Demand For Contigency Plans


Posted: 2011-09-02 16:44:47 UTC
The Feds demand Bank of America provide contingency plans to prevent financial collapse following a massive stock sell off and slew ominous financial revelations.
As Tyler Durden at Zero Hedge revealed, whose post along with information on Naked Capitalism  was ran on Business Insider sent Wall Street into a frenzy, Bank of America is in dire financial straits.

Bank Of America Scrambles To Defend Itself From Henry Blodget’s Allegations It Is Massively Undercapitalized

Submitted by Tyler Durden on 08/23/2011 12:35 -0400
Early this morning, Henry Blodget penned a post titled “Here’s Why Bank Of America’s Stock Is Collapsing Again” in which he used Zero Hedge data among other, to determine that the capital shortfall for the bank is between $100 and $200 billion. It took BAC exactly 6 hours to retort. Below is the full statement.
BANK OF AMERICA STATEMENT REGARDING HENRY BLODGET
2011-08-23 16:29:04.675 GMT
(The following is a reformatted version of a statement from Larry DiRita, a Bank of America spokesman. The statement was confirmed by the sender.)
Mr. Blodgett is making “exaggerated and unwarranted claims” which is what the SEC stated publicly when he was permanently banned from the securities industry in 2003.  The sovereign exposure is off by a factor of 10.  The commercial real estate figures are off by a factor of four.  The mortgage analysis was provided by a hedge fund that has acknowledged it will benefit if our stock price declines.  The recommendations on goodwill accounting would be prohibited by generally acceptable accounting practices.  Traditional bank valuation relies upon tangible book value per share, which excludes by definition 100 percent of goodwill and other intangibles.  As of June 30, our tangible book value per share was $12.65.
Oh ok, Bank of America, that explains it all. As for the mortgage analysis being provided by a hedge fund “that has acknowledged it will benefit if our stock price declines”, co-authored by Zero Hedge, does that make it wrong? Last time we checked Muddy Waters made money on Sino Forest…
Source: Zero Hedge
In fact, they are severely under-capitalized making the company highly vulnerable to collapse.
Despite, heckling by the main stream media that the information was just posted by anonymous online bloggers, Mr, Durden certainly has the ear of Wall Street bankers and Hedge Fund managers.
Here’s on example of the corporate media reaction to Zero Hedge’s reports on Bank of America, attacking the messenger and ignoring the message in typical corporate news fashion.

And In The Category For Biggest Conspiracy Theory We Have….
 Submitted by Tyler Durden
08/23/2011 21:27 -0400

Two and a half years after consistently and methodically exposing one conspiracy after another (and by the way, once it is proven to be a fact, it is no longer a conspiracy), we were stunned to find that the biggest conspiracy theory is none other than… Zero Hedge. “Zero Hedge, for example, is one that lots of hedge funds look at, lots of money managers look at, and the guy that runs it has their ear. Now I’m not saying that he is not doing his own proprietary work, but, people like to plant stories in there. [cue ominous silence].” TA DUN DUN.
Gee – one does learn something new every day.

And now, back to planting malicious rumors and vile, incorrect stories of ponzi schemes, broken markets, deranged vacuum tubes, plundered tungsten bars, BLS data manipulation, collapsing Nielsen ratings, hyperinflationary obsessive-compulsive printing habits, global central planner intervention and what not.
Also, to anyone who still doesn’t get it, please send your dodecatuple secret “plant” stories to plant@zerohedge[.]com along with your payment made in physical gold Zimbabwean dollars, to be delivered to our paper street headquarters. We certainly would prefer it if the drop man is Bank of America’s James Mahoney. 
Source: Zero Hedge


And there is a reason he has the ear of Wall Street. The media has been exposed time and again printing outright lies and running propaganda pieces in their role as a stenographer and presstitute for big corporations and corrupt government officials.
Tyler has reported spot on news and analysis breaking and endless series of high impact financial news stories, such as the under-capitalization story above. Here is another interesting story – The  $2 million bet that Bank of America will be a $4 stock by November.
It looks like November is coming a lot faster than anticipated as Bank of America’s stock price continues to reflect the series of revelations made on Zero Hedge.
Now even the Feds are worried about fending off what appears to be an evermore imminent collapse of the bank.
Specifically, the Feds have demanded the company provide contingency plans for the almost certain case of continued failure.
The Daily Bail reports:
 

Federal Reserve Asks Bank Of America For Contingency Plans In Case Of Continued Failure

WSJ
Excerpt
U.S. regulators have pushed Bank of America Corp. to show what measures it could take if conditions worsen for the Charlotte, N.C., lender, according to people familiar with the situation.
Executives of the bank recently responded to the unusual request from the Federal Reserve with a list of options that includes the issuance of a separate class of shares tied to the performance of its Merrill Lynch securities unit, these people said. Bank of America purchased Merrill Lynch in 2009, and it has become the bank’s most profitable division.
Chief Executive Brian Moynihan isn’t expected to pull the trigger soon, if ever, on the creation of a so-called Merrill Lynch tracking stock. Such a move would raise money from investors but could be viewed as counter to Mr. Moynihan’s strategy of knitting together the disparate parts of the franchise into a cohesive whole. Its inclusion on the list as a theoretical option shows the bank is considering all possibilities as it wrestles with an array of problems weighing down its shares….
The Fed’s call for more documentation about what the bank might do in more-extreme circumstances was a response to uncertainty about a U.S. economic recovery and a downward swing in Bank of America’s share price earlier this year, one of these people said. It was a one-time request, although the Fed has done the same with other firms in the past.
Bank of America did the analysis at the Fed’s request in late July and early August and then provided the Fed with its menu of options, said people familiar with the situation. Some items, such as the tracking stock, were more theoretical than others.
Mr. Moynihan isn’t giving the tracking stock serious consideration at this point, said a person familiar with the situation, but he included it on the list to show the company has multiple levers to pull.
—
More on the Merrill Lynch tracking stock from the WSJ…
Excerpt
In a list sent to the Federal Reserve of potential measures the bank could take should its situation worsen, BofA included the idea of a tracking stock for Merrill Lynch, according to a Wall Street Journal article. The trouble is such a move wouldn’t necessarily signal strength. If anything, investors might interpret it as a sign of desperation.
For starters, tracking stocks, which typically don’t confer ownership or voting rights on holders, have a fairly dismal history. They conjure images of dot.com days, when the instruments came into vogue.
Then there is the idea that a tracking stock for Merrill, which BofA purchased in early 2009, would really make investors ascribe it more value than BofA overall is currently getting credit for.
That is a stretch. If anything, a tracking stock would call into question whether the business is being fully integrated into BofA. It also could stoke speculation of a breakup. Investors don’t foresee that, and the prospect of it would cause worry.
—
Here’s the correct solution to the Bank of America death spiral:
Chris Whalen Recommends Chapter 11 Bankruptcy For Bank Of America: Default And Liquidation Under Dodd-Frank
—
See Also, from the Daily Bail:
BREAKING NYT REPORT – U.S. Government Is Set To Sue A Dozen Big Banks Over Fraudulent Mortgages – Including BofA, JP Morgan, Goldman Sachs & Citigroup
TARP On Steroids – Sherman Vs. Geithner

CNBC further reports:

Bank of America Under Fed Scrutiny
Bank regulators from the Federal Reserve have been pushing Bank of America to put in place a plan for what to do if conditions worsen, according to The Wall Street Journal.
[...] Bank of America’s stock price [BAC  7.355    -0.555  (-7.02%)   ] has been signaling severe distress for several months. Even the temporary boost from Warren Buffett’s $5 billion investment seems to have evaporated.
[...] bank regulators are supposed to take a proactive role in preventing a disorderly collapse of giant financial institutions. But there has been a lot of concern that, despite the rules, regulators might hesitate to pressure such a large bank to develop credible contingency plans.
[...]
This does raise further credibility concerns for the senior management of Bank of America. The bank has been loudly insisting that everything is just fine, that it’s capital and liquidity positions are healthy, and that it isn’t under any regulatory gun.
Today’s news tells a different story. Regulators are concerned.
Were Bank of America’s executives really surprised by this? Or have they been misleading the public about their contact with regulators?
Source: CNBC
Source: Feds Seek To Counter Imminent Bank Of America Collapse With Demand For Contigency Plans © Copying or redistribution of this material requires that this license must remain intact with attribution to the content source.Readers who viewed this page, also viewed: Financial Terrorism in America: Over 1 Million Deaths Annually, 62 Million People With Zero Net Worth, As the Economic Elite Make Off With $46 Trillion Unbelievable! Court Rules US Taxpayers, Not BP Or Transocean, Are Liable For Gulf Oil Spill Clean Up Costs Real Time EPA RadNet Japan Nuclear Radiation Monitoring For Every Major City In The Entire US On A Single Page There’s No Recovery Because the Government Made it Official Policy Not to Prosecute Fraud SEC Whistleblower: Feds Destroyed Evidence Of Thousands Of Wall Streets’ Worst Crimes The Great Recession Of 2007 Never Ended – We Are In Fact In A DepressionRelated PostsThe Great Recession Of 2007 Never Ended – We Are In Fact In A DepressionFinancial Terrorism in America: Over 1 Million Deaths Annually, 62 Million People With Zero Net Worth, As the Economic Elite Make Off With $46 TrillionThe Wall Street Pentagon Papers: Biggest Scam In World History Exposed – Are The Federal Reserve’s Crimes Too Big To Comprehend?Another Criminal Backdoor Banker Bailout – Bank Of America Toxic Assets Dumped On Backs Of TaxpayersThere’s No Recovery Because the Government Made it Official Policy Not to Prosecute FraudSEC Whistleblower: Feds Destroyed Evidence Of Thousands Of Wall Streets’ Worst CrimesDebt Crisis Being Used as Shock Doctrine to Steal More Money from the American People to Give to the Richest 1%Revolution In America – Protests Scheduled June, 14th – Operation Empire State Rebellion Engaged9/11 ANALYSIS: 9/11 and America’s Secret Terror CampaignGold Surges and Stocks Slide As Bernanke Offers No New Steps To Boost Economy At Jackson HoleIllegal Foreclosure Epidemic: Until We Put A CEO In Jail Bankers Will Never Learn Their LessonGovernment Gone Wild! Congress Made Massive Profits Allowing Wall Street To Rob Main StreetABCNNBBCBSFOX, The Public Message Is NOT Mixed!Give Us Your Money, Suckers — U.S. Government Requesting Public Donations To Help Pay The DebtInternal Doc Reveals GMAC Filed False Document in Bid to Foreclose Tsunami Of Public Rage Unleashed As #FuckYouWashington Hashtag Takes Twitter By Storm





Still Fucked 1 Year Later, Scientist Studying BP Gulf Oil Spill Impact Tells CNN


Posted: 2011-09-02 15:19:42 UTC
UGA Scientist Samantha Joye, who is study the impact of the BP Gulf Oil Spill, tells CNN that basic marine life on the seafloor remains devastated over 1 year later
CNN’s Colleen McEdwards interviews a scientist who is studying the Gulf oil spill’s impact on basic life.

Source: Still Fucked 1 Year Later, Scientist Studying BP Gulf Oil Spill Impact Tells CNN © Copying or redistribution of this material requires that this license must remain intact with attribution to the content source.Readers who viewed this page, also viewed: Is TEPCO Hiding Something On The Live Fukushima Nuclear Reactor Video Feed? Greek Army Threatens Military Coup Sparking Fears of Military Uprisings And Civil Wars Breaking Out Across All Of Europe Police Severely Beat Man Half To Death For Bicycling Without Headlight Watch Simulation Of 3 Million Gallons Of Dumped Radioactive Seawater Spread Through Pacific Ocean Hurricane Irene – Latest Forecasts, Projections – Real Time Satellite Imagery, Infrared, And Radar The BP Gulf Oil Spill Isn’t Over! (Video) — Let’s Make It ViralRelated PostsBP Gulf Oil Spill Top Kill Latest Updates From BP InsiderOil in Gulf “VERY RESISTANT to further biodegradation” — “Full toxic form for decades” (VIDEO)BP’s Lies About Methane And Oil Plumes Exposed9/11 Compensation Fund Won’t Cover Cancer Costs After Feds Covered Up Carcinogens In Ground Zero Air22 Mile Plume Of Oil From BP Gulf Oil Spill Originates Near Biloxi Dome Sea Floor Leaks 7 Miles AwayMassive Hole Found In Sea Bed After ROV Captures Methane Tornado Near BP Gulf Oil Spill WellHow BP F’d the Gulf of Mexico Using DispersantsGovernment Claims The BP Gulf Oil Spill Has Been Plugged But The Well Is Still LeakingUnderwater Lakes Of Oil From BP Spill Will Continue To Cover Gulf Beaches With Toxic Layer Of Invisible Oil For MonthsMore Evidence Of Oil In The Gulf Stream – BP Gulf Oil Spill Filmed Off Miami Beach FL On July 9th From 15th FloorThis Is What We Need – A BP Gulf Oil Spill Containment Cap That Doesn’t Allow Oil To Leak.Interview With Fintan Dunne Discussing Sea Floor Leaks, Blown Well Casing, And Possible Need To Use A Nuke To Cap Well Live Blogging BP Live Oil Spill Video Updates – BP TOP KILL May have BLOWN UP!!Is TEPCO Hiding Something On The Live Fukushima Nuclear Reactor Video Feed?The BP Gulf Oil Spill Isn’t Over! (Video) — Let’s Make It ViralAlabama Governor Warns Of Economic Collapse Over Feds Failure To Pay BP Gulf Oil Spill Victims Claims





US Threatens UN Funding Cut To Force Repeal of Anti-Israel Resolutions And Kill Palestine Statehood Vote


Posted: 2011-09-02 08:13:22 UTC
The US threatens to end UN funding to stop a vote for Palestinian statehood and force the repeal of human rights resolutions against Israel.

Russia Today reports:

US threatens aid cut to UN over Palestine vote
A US congresswoman introduced a new bill that proposes to stop US funding of United Nations agencies that supports the Palestinian bid to become an independent state.
­Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, chairwoman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, introduced a new bill to Congress with 57 co-sponsors which proposes slashing America’s financial contribution to any part of the UN that supports the vote on the recognition of Palestine on September 20.
Ros-Lehtinen stressed that the timing was not a coincidence, and that she introduced this bill to stop Palestine from seeking membership at the UN.
The proposed legislation calls for the US to change the way it is financing the UN.
It also calls for Washington to choose UN programs that it wants to fund and contribute to.
The US is currently the biggest funder of the UN – it funds 22 percent of the UN’s general budget.
Ros-Lehtinen’s bill also proposes that all funding for UN agencies or programs that support Palestinian’s membership in the UN end immediately.
Ros-Lehtinen’s bill, if passed, would also defund the UN Human Rights Committee until it repeals anti-Israel resolutions and prohibits countries that support terrorism from serving as its members. Ros-Lehtinen has also called for the US to pull out of the UN Human Rights Council until the reforms are put in action.
Meanwhile, as RT’s Marina Portnaya reports, experts believe that this bill puts the US in a very weak position. It takes away its credibility at the UN, they say, because it clearly extends far beyond diplomacy.
The General Assembly is due to hold a controversial vote later this month on recognition.
Source: Russia Today
 
Source: US Threatens UN Funding Cut To Force Repeal of Anti-Israel Resolutions And Kill Palestine Statehood Vote © Copying or redistribution of this material requires that this license must remain intact with attribution to the content source.Readers who viewed this page, also viewed: Ongoing Scandal – Obama Lying About Japan Nuclear Radiation In US Freedom of Speech My ASS! Citizen Who Has Town Hall Floor llegally Arrested For Speaking Against Ordinance Hacker Data Release Reveals Feds Domestic Spy Program Has Grown Far Beyond Our Wildest Nightmares Gates Foundation Partner Forces 131 Black Children To Be Vaccinated At Gunpoint Hurricane Irene: ‘EXTREME THREAT LEVEL’ Warning Issued For Northeast By The Weather Channel 10 Indications The United States Is A DictatorshipRelated PostsThe Guardian, Al-Jazeera Set Straight Corporate Media Lies About London Riots Experts Warn ‘America Will Lose Its Sovereignty’ As The Financial Armageddon Clock Ticks Away Wikileaks Cable Suggests The US Executed Handcuffed Women And Children Under 5, Including An InfantUK Using London Riots To Expand Spying and Censorship Of Social Media Censorship And Cell Phone NetworksAl-Jazeera Blasts The Money Trail Funding The Nuclear Industry Cover Up Of The Fukushima DisasterAmid Charges Of Abuse Of Power FBI Chief’s Job Extended In Violation Of 10 Year Term LimitThe Debt Ceiling Deal From Hell – A Complete And Total FraudTyler Durden, You Are Scaring The Living Shit Out Of Me With This Talk!Senator Bernie Sanders Reveals The Top Ten U.S. Corporate Tax DodgersGates Foundation Partner Forces 131 Black Children To Be Vaccinated At GunpointDebt Crisis Being Used as Shock Doctrine to Steal More Money from the American People to Give to the Richest 1%Freedom of Speech My ASS! Citizen Who Has Town Hall Floor llegally Arrested For Speaking Against OrdinanceEX-DEA Agent Says CIA Performed Behavior Modification Aerial Spray Over CaliforniaFacebook Now Helping Governments Spy On And Arrest Peaceful ActivistsHacker Data Release Reveals Feds Domestic Spy Program Has Grown Far Beyond Our Wildest Nightmares10 Indications The United States Is A Dictatorship





China Calls for Crackdown on Internet Rumors To Prevent “Arab Spring” Style Uprising


Posted: 2011-09-02 07:29:45 UTC
China has called for a crackdown of internet rumors being spread through social networking tools to prevent an “Arab Spring” style uprising.
VOA News
September 1, 2011
China’s state news agency has called for a crackdown on what it calls the spread of toxic rumors over the Internet.
Xinhua published an article Tuesday in Chinese-only criticizing the increasingly popular social networking sites for spreading rumors like cancer, and urged preventive action.
Chinese authorities use sophisticated software to try to control what is said on the Internet. The government has become increasingly nervous about the Arab uprisings, which have gathered huge support through online networking. Officials fear they may inspire unrest in China.
Human rights groups say China is stifling free speech. Eric Harwit, an adjunct fellow at the East-West Center in Hawaii, tells VOA that Beijing also may be genuinely concerned about the spread of misinformation.
“In some cases, I think there are people who do want to incite action or opposition to the government and to propagate information that isn’t exactly correlated with reality,” he said. “The statement by the government may be rather strong and might stifle online discussion, but I think the government does sense that there are rumors that could be harmful to society and to stability.”
Most recently, users of China’s Weibo service, the country’s equivalent of Twitter, sent millions of messages criticizing the official response to the high-speed train disaster in July, which killed 40 people. Harwit said that event prompted the government not just to clamp down on information, but to release it, as well.
“I think the train crash issue certainly was one that the government saw as inspiring the government to release more information on an important event, and probably did involve some people in society spreading information that wasn’t necessarily accurate,” he said.
Despite Beijing’s warning, Harwit said he does not believe China’s “microblogs” are going away. Microblogs are Web sites that allow people to post short updates in real-time. Popular topics include news, entertainment and financial advice.
“They’ve become too popular. The companies that are the main providers of microblogs, Sina and Tencent, they’ve been promoting the use of these microblogs for the last few years. So it’d be very difficult for the government to tell them to stop.”
China has the world’s largest online population, with close to 500 million users
Source: China Calls for Crackdown on Internet Rumors To Prevent “Arab Spring” Style Uprising © Copying or redistribution of this material requires that this license must remain intact with attribution to the content source.Readers who viewed this page, also viewed: Feds Seek To Counter Imminent Bank Of America Collapse With Demand For Contigency Plans London Riots: UK To Implement “Zero Tolerance” Police State Presenting Goldman Sachs Top Secret “The World Is Ending So Let’s All Profit” Report UK Using London Riots To Expand Spying and Censorship Of Social Media Censorship And Cell Phone Networks Feds Now “Duty-Bound To Confiscate” Silver And Gold Liberty Dollars As Illegal ContrabandRelated PostsUK Using London Riots To Expand Spying and Censorship Of Social Media Censorship And Cell Phone NetworksSinister Cyber Surveillance Plot Revealed In Fascinating Glimpse Into World Of Fascist Black OpsFeds Now “Duty-Bound To Confiscate” Silver And Gold Liberty Dollars As Illegal ContrabandLocation Tracking In Electronic Devices Used As Spy Tools To Aid Police Torture in BahrainLondon Riots: UK To Implement “Zero Tolerance” Police StateThe Guardian, Al-Jazeera Set Straight Corporate Media Lies About London RiotsFacebook Pushing To Require Everyone’s Online Activity Be Tracked By The GovernmentOslo Terror Attacks Being Used To Justify Sinister Cyber Surveillance Programs Tsunami Of Public Rage Unleashed As #FuckYouWashington Hashtag Takes Twitter By StormFacebook Now Helping Governments Spy On And Arrest Peaceful ActivistsIt Gets Even Crazier:  AT&T, Comcast, And Other ISPs Introduce The “Three Strikes” Internet Censorship DealMedia Ignores The Spanish Revolution As It Turns To World RevolutionWikileaks Cable Suggests The US Executed Handcuffed Women And Children Under 5, Including An InfantAsia Times: S&P Downgrade Part Of Bilderbergers Plan To Control The Whole World!!NBC 60 Minutes – Fukushima Now Radiating Everyone: ‘Unspeakable’ Reality  ‘Will Impact All Of Humanity’U.K. Police Charge Man For Organizing A Mass Water Gun Fight 





White House Finally Admits US Unemployment Will Stay High Through 2012


Posted: 2011-09-02 07:21:38 UTC
White House economists predicted Thursday that U.S. unemployment will stay at or near its present level throughout next year and economic growth will be slower than previously projected.
White House: US Unemployment To Stay High Through 2012
VOA News
September 1st, 2011
White House economists predicted Thursday that U.S. unemployment will stay at or near its present level throughout next year. They also say that economic growth will be slower than previously projected.
A report from the Office of Management and Budget forecast the nation’s jobless rate to remain near its current level of nine percent through 2012.
Continued high unemployment could threaten President Barack Obama’s prospects for re-election.
Mr. Obama is scheduled to lay out his plan for job creation and economic recovery next week, before a joint session of Congress.
White House spokesman Jay Carney said Thursday the president’s initiatives, if implemented, would help to reduce the jobless rate.
“Economists will be able to look at this series of proposals and say that, based on history, based on what we know, based on their collected expertise, that it would add to economic growth and it would cause an increase in job creation,” Carney said.
The administration report also forecast overall growth of just 1.7 percent this year, one percent less than predicted earlier this year.
The economy grew at seven-tenths of one percent in the first half of 2011, its slowest pace in two years.
The White House predicts a federal deficit of $1.3 trillion for the fiscal year which ends September 30.  That is a slight increase over last year’s deficit but more than $300 billion below February’s forecast.
The administration delayed release of the report, which had been due in July, because of legislative battles over the debt limit and the budget.
Source: White House Finally Admits US Unemployment Will Stay High Through 2012 © Copying or redistribution of this material requires that this license must remain intact with attribution to the content source.Readers who viewed this page, also viewed: Asia Times: S&P Downgrade Part Of Bilderbergers Plan To Control The Whole World!! Still Fucked 1 Year Later, Scientist Studying BP Gulf Oil Spill Impact Tells CNN China Says US On Way To Default While Implying America Is Falsifying Its Accounting Congress In Secret Talks To Chop Social Security And Medicare To Avoid Apocalyptic Debt Default Tyler Durden, You Are Scaring The Living Shit Out Of Me With This Talk! Alert From Ron Paul: DEBT CEILING BETRAYAL IMMINENT‏ — Help Fight It And Say #FuckYouWashingtonRelated PostsThe Great Recession Of 2007 Never Ended – We Are In Fact In A DepressionObama  “Will Not Take Yes For An Answer” On Debt Ceiling DebateCongress In Secret Talks To Chop Social Security And Medicare To Avoid Apocalyptic Debt DefaultAsia Times: S&P Downgrade Part Of Bilderbergers Plan To Control The Whole World!!China Says US On Way To Default While Implying America Is Falsifying Its AccountingFinancial Terrorism in America: Over 1 Million Deaths Annually, 62 Million People With Zero Net Worth, As the Economic Elite Make Off With $46 TrillionThere’s No Recovery Because the Government Made it Official Policy Not to Prosecute FraudCNN Poll: Obama approval rating drops as fears of depression riseMoody’s Cuts Japan’s Government Credit Rating From Aa2 to Aa3, Yets Says Outlook Stable Starbucks CEO Calls For CEO Boycott Of Campaign Contributions And Strikes Agianst Our PoliticiansNixon Shock: 40 Yrs. End of Gold StandardThe Debt Ceiling Deal From Hell – A Complete And Total FraudTyler Durden, You Are Scaring The Living Shit Out Of Me With This Talk!Alert From Ron Paul: DEBT CEILING BETRAYAL IMMINENT‏ — Help Fight It And Say #FuckYouWashington Tsunami Of Public Rage Unleashed As #FuckYouWashington Hashtag Takes Twitter By StormDebt Crisis Being Used as Shock Doctrine to Steal More Money from the American People to Give to the Richest 1%





Israeli Protestors Ready For Tomorrow’s ‘March of the Million’


Posted: 2011-09-02 06:44:18 UTC
Israel protests reach a crucial turning point as demonstrators vow to spread into several cities as Prime Minister Netanyahu ignores their September 3 deadline .
Protesters ready for tomorrow’s ‘March of the Million’
By BEN HARTMAN
09/02/2011 07:11
Social protest movement to reach a turning poing as demonstration is launched in several cities.
The social protest movement that has roiled the country since mid- July will reach a crossroads on Saturday as activists launch the “March of the Million” in several cities.
The demonstration is being billed as the climactic street protest of a movement that has seen tent cities sprout up and forced quality-of-life issues into the forefront of the political debate.
RELATED:
Tent-city protesters present demands to Trajtenberg C’tee
Israel Beiteinu unveils economic plan in answer to protests
“We’ve reached a turning point in the movement. For six weeks [Prime Minister Binyamin] Netanyahu has seen what we’re doing and has not given us any respectful sort of response. If after September 3 he still hasn’t, then it will be clear that we don’t have a partner and we have no choice but to launch a long-term protest that could take years,” Shir Nosatzki, one of the activists at the center of the tent-city protest, said on Thursday. “The path is long, but we are capable of going down this road.”
Activists have attached an historic sort of pre-game hype to the event, with the tag line “Where were you on September 3?” attached to posters and flyers, invoking the question “where were you on November 5” asked about the night in 1995 that prime minister Yitzhak Rabin was assassinated.
Itzik Shmuli, head of the National Union of Students, also spoke in prophetic terms regarding coming protest, saying in a statement on Thursday that “this Saturday we are taking our socioeconomic fate into our own hands. If we don’t come to the protest we will hand our fate over for the next 25 years.”
The Tel Aviv demonstration is scheduled to begin at 7:30 p.m., with a march from the Habimah Theater to Hamedina Square in the city’s north where a rally will be held.
In addition to speakers, the rally will be headlined by Eyal Golan, the first time a Mizrachi singer has hadthe honor at one of the movement’s Saturday night Tel Aviv rallies. The event will also feature the Hadag Nahash hip hop/funk band and the cast of the TV political satire show Eretz Nehederet (“A Wonderful Country”), who will broadcast a special edition during the protest.
Demonstrations will be held in at least nine additional cities, from Nahariya in the North to Mitzpe Ramon in the South.
Daphni Leef, the 26-year-old film editor who in mid-July launched a Facebook event that started the movement, said on Thursday, “I am calling on everyone to step out of the house on Saturday night and take part in the biggest protest ever held in the history of Israel. Together we will send a clear and strong message to the government of Israel: The people want social justice here and now. We won’t stop protesting, we won’t stop the struggle!” With the protest looming, dozens of Tel Aviv bars, restaurants and cafes have joined the cause, volunteering to close their doors on Saturday evening so employees and customers can take part in the rally.
Preparations for Saturday’s events took place against the backdrop of a media report that activists will announce at Saturday’s main rally in Tel Aviv their decision to fold up the tent cities, and enter a new phase of the protest.
Midday at the Rothschild Boulevard tent city in Tel Aviv, few people seemed to know anything about the reported decision.

“From day one, the one thing people keep asking is, ‘When will you fold up? When will you go home?’ This is nothing new, people have been saying this stuff the whole time,” said Shir, a tent-city resident sitting on a couch a couple of meters from the “1948 tent” – which represents Palestinian demands – at the corner of Rothschild and Hashmonaim. “How can anyone give that order anyway? There’s not one person who’s deciding for everyone here what to do.”
Read The Rest…
Source: Israeli Protestors Ready For Tomorrow’s ‘March of the Million’ © Copying or redistribution of this material requires that this license must remain intact with attribution to the content source.Readers who viewed this page, also viewed: Rioters Turn Athens Greece Into A War Zone — Banks And Finance Ministry Set On Fire After Banker Bailout Passes Anonymous-Led Protest Against San Francisco BART Police Turn Violent Scientists Successfully Implant Chip That Controls The Brain Allowing Thoughts, Memory And Behavior To Be Transferred From One Brain To Another Guardian: Pols Say Riots Weren’t Political But Looters Knew The Elite Commits Robbery In Broad Daylight Real Time EPA RadNet Japan Nuclear Radiation Monitoring For Every Major City In The Entire US On A Single Page Ongoing Scandal – Obama Lying About Japan Nuclear Radiation In USRelated PostsIndia Mass Arrests 3,000 Supporters Of Arrested Anti-Corruption Crusader Engaged In Peaceful ProtestsHappening Now: ‘Anonymous’ Led Protests Over Fatal BART Police Shooting Shuts Down San Francisco Train StationsThe Guardian, Al-Jazeera Set Straight Corporate Media Lies About London RiotsGuardian: Let’s Stop Assuming the Police are on Our SideUK Using London Riots To Expand Spying and Censorship Of Social Media Censorship And Cell Phone NetworksAnonymous-Led Protest Against San Francisco BART Police Turn ViolentRioters Turn Athens Greece Into A War Zone — Banks And Finance Ministry Set On Fire After Banker Bailout PassesBankers Laugh As Athens Burns. Wall Street Licks Their Chops As Protestors Are Beaten.Photos Of The Protestors Battling With Riot Police On The Streets Of Athens GreeceGreek Protestors Firebomb Riot Police In Protest Of IMF Bank Bailout LoanJournalists Assualted, Activists Arrested As Children Defy Police, Purchase Lemonade At CapitolRevolution Spreads To Germany: Cars Of Hundreds Of “Fat Cats” BurnedGuardian: Pols Say Riots Weren’t Political But Looters Knew The Elite Commits Robbery In Broad DaylightLondon Riots – Media Calls Brutal Police Beating Of Teenagers On Bicycles “Rough Justice”UK Disregards “Concerns About Human Rights” And Authorizes Shooting Of London Riots Protestors16 Year Old Girl Beaten By Police Sparks London Riots Violence





Wikileaks Cable Suggests The US Executed Handcuffed Women And Children Under 5, Including An Infant


Posted: 2011-09-02 06:09:33 UTC
Wikileaks cable suggests the US bombed a building to destroy evidence they executed 10 handcuffed Iraqi civilians, including a woman, children under 5, and an infant.
The Center for Reasearch on Globalization reports that Wikileaks has released cables that confirm the United States has been conducted targeted assassinations of Iraqi civilians.
The report, first reveals that the password to decrypt the full text of the full text of the unredacted cables has been leaked on the internet, allegedly by a Guardian reporter and then goes on to discuss the contents of the just released Wikileaks cable 59146.
Cable 59146 reveals one of the incidents of targeted assassinations in which the U.S. government tried to destroy evidence of the executions by bombing the building. The officials story was the building collapsed under heavy fire, but witnesses interviewed at the scene say 6 missiles fire by U.S. aircraft destroyed the building.
Unfortunately for the war criminals, autopsies of the bodies found in the building revealed at least 10 civilians found in the building were all handcuffed and shot in the head execution style before the building was bombed.
Even worse the victims including a woman in her 70′s and 5 children under the age of 5, including a 5 month infant.
The U.S. government then publicly covered up the executions by stating the deaths where the result of a building collapse that followed a search for ‘a foreign fighter facilitator for the Al Qaeda in Iraq network’ which the media reported without question.
First, from the Raw Story:
 
Graphic photographs show bodies of civilians killed in Ishaqi, Iraq
RAW STORY
Published: Friday June 2, 2006

Print This | Email This
Photographs taken by Agence France Presse but not distributed by major US media outlets show the bodies of Iraqi civilians killed in March in a home in Ishaqi, Iraq. Those photographs — may of which are graphic and show the decaying bodies of children, some of them babies — are displayed below. Please do not scroll down if you do not wish to see these photos.
The photographs were discovered and highlighted by by Christopher Floyd of ChrisFloyd.com earlier this year.
According to Reuters report on the incident, the 11 bodies of men, women and children, including a 75-year old grandmother and a child under the age one one, were found bound in their blown-up home. All were shot in the head; the house was riddled with bullets. At the time, “The U.S. military said two women and a child died during the bid to seize an al Qaeda militant from a house.”
“A senior Iraqi police officer said autopsies on the bodies, which included five children, showed each had been shot in the head. Community leaders said they were outraged at the killings and demanded an explanation from the U.S. military,” Reuters reported. “Television footage showed the bodies in the Tikrit morgue — five children, two men and four women. Their wounds were not clear though one infant had a gaping head wound.”
[...]
The photographs, quite graphic, follow.








MORE PHOTOS, AND A DETAILED ACCOUNT OF THE INCIDENT, ARE AVAILABLE HERE
Ironically, the date United States conducted targeted assassinations of Iraqi civilians, March 15, 2006, was the same date Saddam Hussein began his lengthy testimony in his war crimes trial where he was charged with and executed for the charged with ordering the killing of 148 villagers in Dujail in 1982.
Global Research reports:

US Targetted Assassinations in Iraq confirmed by Wikileaks Archive
Global Research, September 1, 2011
Via The Australian
ANTI-secrecy group WikiLeaks says its massive archive of unredacted US State Department cables has been exposed in a security breach which it blames on its one-time partner, Britain’s Guardian newspaper.
In a 1600-word-long editorial posted to the internet, WikiLeaks accused the Guardian’s investigative reporter David Leigh of divulging the password needed to decrypt the files in a book published earlier this year.
The Guardian and Leigh both denied wrongdoing.
Copies of the files appeared to be circulating freely around the web, although their authenticity could not immediately be determined.
WikiLeaks said in its statement that Leigh had “recklessly, and without gaining our approval, knowingly disclosed the decryption passwords” in his book on the organisation, published by the Guardian back in February.
WikiLeaks said that knowledge of the leaked passwords had been spreading privately for months, but that the organisation was forced to come out with a statement today after news of the breach began spilling into the press.
In Washington, the State Department did not immediately respond to a call seeking comment.
US officials have previously said that the disclosure of the entire unredacted archive could have potentially serious consequences for informants, activists and others quoted in the cables.
Repeated attempts to reach WikiLeaks staffers for further clarification were unsuccessful.
Meanwhile, a cable in the latest tranche of documents released suggests US troops executed 10 Iraqi civilians, including an elderly woman and an infant, before bombing to destroy the evidence.
The controversial 2006 incident in the central Iraqi town of Ishaqi involved the execution-style murder of 10 civilians including a woman in her 70s and a 5-month-old infant.
The unclassified cable, which was posted on WikiLeaks’ website last week, contained questions from a United Nations investigator about the incident, which had angered local Iraqi officials, who demanded some kind of action from their government.
US officials denied at the time that anything inappropriate had occurred.
But Philip Alston, the UN’s special rapporteur on extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions, said in a communication to US officials dated 12 days after the March 15, 2006, incident that autopsies performed in the Iraqi city of Tikrit showed that all the dead had been handcuffed and shot in the head.
Among the dead were four women and five children.
The children were all 5 years old or younger.
Reached by email on Wednesday, Alston said that as of 2010 – the most recent data he had – US officials hadn’t responded to his request for information and that Iraq’s government also hadn’t been forthcoming.
He said the lack of response from the United States “was the case with most of the letters to the US in the 2006-2007 period,” when fighting in Iraq peaked.
Alston said he could provide no further information on the incident.
“The tragedy,” he said, “is that this elaborate system of communications is in place but the (UN) Human Rights Council does nothing to follow up when states ignore issues raised with them.”
The Pentagon didn’t respond to a request for comment.
At the time, American military officials in Iraq said the accounts of townspeople who witnessed the events were highly unlikely to be true, and they later said the incident didn’t warrant further investigation.
Military officials also refused to reveal which units might have been involved in the incident.
Erik Westermann gives us more information the original leaked cable.

Cable details killing, coverup of family with small children by MNF in Iraq
September 1st, 2011 // 10:21 pm @ Erik Westermann
The following U.S. diplomatic cable describes the execution and coverup of a family in a town about 100km north of Baghdad, Iraq on March 15, 2006. The killings were the result of a Multi-national Force (MNF) investigation of the killing of two MNF soldiers sometime between March 6 and 11.
The shocking text speaks for itself. I have added bold and italics; however, the text of the original cable is unchanged:
“59146″,”4/3/2006 14:48″,”06GENEVA763″,”US Mission Geneva”,”UNCLASSIFIED”,”06USMISSIONGENEVA2006″,”R 031448Z APR 06
FM USMISSION GENEVA
TO SECSTATE WASHDC 9047
USMISSION USUN NEW YORK
“,”UNCLAS GENEVA 000763
STATE FOR IO/RHS, DRL/MLA, L/HRR
E.O. 12958: N/A
TAGS: PHUM, UNHRC-1
SUBJECT: COMMUNICATION FROM SRS ON ESA EXECUTIONS REGARDING
AN MNF RAID IN IRAQ ON MARCH 15, 2006
1. Mission received a communication from Philip Alston, Special Rapporteur on Extrajudicial, Summary or Arbitrary Executions, regarding a raid conducted by Multinational Forces on March 15, 2006 at the house of Faiz Harrat Al- Majma’ee in Iraq. This communication has been sent via e- mail to IO/RHS. This communication is number 8 on the Geneva 2006 Communications Log.
2. Begin text of letter:
27 March 2006
REFERENCE: AL G/SO 214 (33-23) USA 6/2006
Excellency,
I have the honour to address you in my capacity as Special Rapporteur on extrajudicial, summary and arbitrary executions pursuant to Commission on Human Rights resolution 2004/37.
I would like to draw the attention of your Government to information I have received regarding a raid conducted by the Multinational Forces (MNF) on 15 March 2006 in the house of Faiz Harrat Al-Majma’ee, a farmer living in the outskirts of Al-Iss Haqi District in Balad (Salah-El-Din Governorate). 
I have received various reports indicating that at least 10 persons, namely Mr. Faiz Hratt Khalaf, (aged 28), his wife Sumay’ya Abdul Razzaq Khuther (aged 24), their three children Hawra’a (aged 5) Aisha ( aged 3) and Husam (5 months old), Faiz’s mother Ms. Turkiya Majeed Ali (aged 74), Faiz’s sister (name unknown), Faiz’s nieces Asma’a Yousif Ma’arouf (aged 5 years old), and Usama Yousif Ma’arouf (aged 3 years), and a visiting relative Ms. Iqtisad Hameed Mehdi (aged 23) were killed during the raid. 
According to the information received, American troops approached Mr. Faiz’s home in the early hours of 15 March 2006. It would appear that when the MNF approached the house, shots were fired from it and a confrontation ensued for some 25 minutes. The MNF troops entered the house, handcuffed all residents and executed all of them. After the initial MNF intervention, a US air raid ensued that destroyed the house. 
Iraqi TV stations broadcast from the scene and showed bodies of the victims (i.e. five children and four women) in the morgue of Tikrit. Autopsies carries out at the Tikrit Hospital’s morgue revealed that all corpses were shot in the head and handcuffed. 
I am aware that the MNF confirmed that an air raid took place that day in Balad and that it caused an unconfirmed number of casualties. The US military attacked the house to capture members of Mr. Faiz Harrat Al-Majma’ee’s family on the basis that they were allegedly involved in the killing of two MNF soldiers who were killed between 6 to 11 March 2006 in the Al Haweeja area. The US military was further reported in the media as stating that MNF troops attacked the house in question to capture “a foreign fighter facilitator for the Al Qaeda in Iraq network”. Other reports indicate that over the past five months, there have been a significant number of lethal incidents in which the MNF is alleged to have used excessive force to respond to perceived threats either at checkpoints or by using air bombing in civilian areas.
In drawing the attention of your Excellency’s Government to this information and seeking clarification thereof, I am fully aware of the stance taken by your Government in correspondence with me regarding the mandate’s competence regarding killings that are said to have occurred within the context of an armed conflict (I refer to your Government’s letters dated 22 April 2003 and 8 April 2004). As explained in my report to the 61st Commission on Human Rights, as well as in letters to your Excellency’s Government of 26 August 2005 and 7 March 2006, however, not only the relevant formulation of the mandate but also the General Assembly in its resolutions and the now longstanding practice of the independent experts successively holding the mandate since its creation in 1982 make it clear that questions of humanitarian law fall squarely within the Special Rapporteur’s mandate (See E/CN.4/2005/7, at par. 45).
I would also recall that the Human Rights Committee has held that a State party can be held responsible for violations of rights under the Covenant where the violations are perpetrated by authorized agents of the State on foreign territory, “whether with the acquiescence of the Government of [the foreign State] or in opposition to it”. (See Lopez v. Uruguay, communication No.52/1979, CCPR/C/OP/1 at 88 (1984), paras. 12.1-12.3.)
Finally, I wish to remind you that UN GA Resolution 59/191 of 10 March 2005, in its paragraph 1, stresses that “States must ensure that any measure to combat terrorism complies with their obligation under international law, in particular international human right, refugee and humanitarian law”. Without in any way wishing to pre-judge the accuracy of the information received, I would be grateful for a reply to the following questions:
1. Are the facts alleged in the above summary of the case accurate? On what basis was it decided to kill, rather than capture, members of Mr. Faiz Harrat Al-Majma’ee’s family.
2. What rules of international law does your Excellency’s Government consider to govern these incidents? If your Excellency’s Government considers the incidents to have been governed by humanitarian law, please clarify which treaty instruments or customary norms are considered to apply.
3. What procedural safeguards, if any, were employed to ensure that these killings complied with international law?
4. Does your Excellency’s Government intend to provide compensation to Mr. Faiz Harrat Al-Majma’ee’s relatives.
It is my responsibility under the mandate provided to me by the Commission on Human Rights and reinforced by the appropriate resolutions of the General Assembly, to seek to clarify all such cases brought to my attention. Since I am expected to report on these cases to the Human Rights Council I would be grateful for your cooperation and your observations. I undertake to ensure that your Government’s response is accurately reflected in the reports I will submit to the Human Rights Council for its consideration.
Please accept, Excellency, the assurances of our highest consideration,
Philip Alston
Special Rapporteur on extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions
End text of letter.

Download the original cable here (PDF file)
Alternately, download ‘cable.csv’ and search for cable 59146

Source: Erik Westermann
Here is Wikiepedia’s entry on the incident.

Ishaqi incident
The Ishaqi incident refers to the reported mass murder of Iraqi civilians allegedly committed by United States forces in the town of Ishaqi in March 2006. After the incident, Iraqi police accused the US troops of rounding up and deliberately shooting 11 people, including five children and four women, before blowing up their house. A US military spokesman at the time responded that it was “highly unlikely that [the allegations] were true”.[1] US authorities said they were involved in a firefight after a tip-off that an al-Qaeda cell leader, Ahmad Abdallah Muhammad Na’is al-Utaybi, was visiting the house. According to the Americans, the building collapsed under heavy fire, killing four people—a suspect, two women and a child.[2]
In June 2006 the US indicated they were re-investigating the incident,[3] after the BBC obtained a tape from “a hardline Sunni group” that appeared to contain evidence supporting the allegations of the Iraqi police.[2] The investigation found, on June 2, 2006 that US military personnel had followed the proper procedures and rules of engagement, and that they had done nothing wrong. (US forces, the report claimed, had initially responded to enemy fire upon them with small arms fire and then escalated force incrementally until the threat to them was eliminated.) Major General William B. Caldwell, a senior US military spokesman, said in an official statement that “Allegations that the troops executed a family living in this safe house, and then hid the alleged crimes by directing an air strike, are absolutely false.”[4] The Iraqi government immediately rejected the results of the US probe, stating they would continue their own investigation.[5]
 Events
 
On March 15, 2006, U.S. Forces raided a house owned by Faiz Harat Khalaf, about sixty miles north of Baghdad in the Abu Sifa area of Ishaqi, (eight miles north of the city of Balad). The raid targeted an Al-Qaeda operative believed to have been present in the residence. The forces approached the house at around 2:30 am and a firefight ensued between the troops and unknown gunmen inside the house. The U.S. troops were supported by helicopter gunships, which also fired on the house.
Matthew Schofield of Knight Ridder Newspapers, who described the incident in an article on March 16, 2006, reported that as a result of the raid eleven Iraqi civilians were killed:[1]

Turkiya Muhammed Ali, 75 years
Faiza Harat Khalaf, 30 years
Faiz Harat Khalaf, 28 years
Um Ahmad, 23 years
Sumaya Abdulrazak, 22 years
Aziz Khalil Jarmoot, 22 years
Hawra Harat Khalaf, 5 years
Asma Yousef Maruf, 5 years
Osama Yousef Maruf, 3 years
Aisha Harat Khalaf, 3 years
Husam Harat Khalaf, 6 months

It was also reported that an Iraqi police report, filed by Staff Colonel Fadhil Muhammed Khalaf, the Assistant Chief of the Joint Coordination Center claimed:

“The American forces gathered the family members in one room and executed 11 people, including 5 children, 4 women and 2 men, then they bombed the house, burned three vehicles and killed their animals.”[6]

Knight Ridder Newspapers and Times Online interviewed the brother of the owner of the house, Ibraheem Hirat Khalaf, who claimed that he witnessed the assault from his home 100 yards (91 m) away. He said that the U.S. troops used six missiles from helicopters to destroy the house as they were leaving. Searching the wreckage, he found the body of his mother Turkiya, her face unrecognisable. “She had been shot with a dumdum bullet,” he claimed.[7]
A local police commander, Lt. Col. Farooq Hussain, interviewed by a Knight Ridder special correspondent in Ishaqi, said autopsies of the bodies performed at a hospital in Tikrit “revealed that all the victims had bullet shots in the head and all bodies were handcuffed.” Amer Amery of Reuters reported Hussain saying that “autopsies had been carried out at Tikrit hospital and [had] found ‘all the victims had gunshot wounds to the head’. The bodies, found with their hands bound, had been dumped in one room before the house was destroyed, Hussain said. Police had found spent American-issue cartridges in the rubble.” [8] Schofield’s story, which credited an Iraqi police report, was related on the U.S. radio program Democracy Now in March 2006.[9]
Another neighbour, Hassan Kurdi Mahassen, was woken by the sound of helicopters and saw soldiers entering Fayez’s home after spraying it with such heavy fire that walls crumbled. Mahassen said that once the soldiers had left—after apparently dropping several grenades that caused part of the house to collapse—villagers searched under the rubble “and found them all buried in one room”.

“Women and even the children were blindfolded and their hands bound. Some of their faces were totally disfigured. A lot of blood was on the floors and the walls.”

Reuters also reported that Major Ali Ahmed of the Ishaqi police said U.S. forces had landed on the roof of the house in the early hours and shot the 11 occupants, including the five children. “After they left the house they blew it up,” he said.
Television footage apparently from a local Iraqi station, “showed the bodies in the Tikrit morgue—five children, two men and four women. Their wounds were not clear though one infant had a gaping head wound.” The Associated Press’ Hameed Rasheed was on the scene and took several images of the victims.[10]
US Military Response
Initial US Army reports quoted Major Tim Keefe, a US military spokesperson:

“A battle damage assessment, the initial reports, said that what they saw were four people killed – a woman and two children and an enemy – and they detained an enemy[...] A man suspected of being a “foreign fighter facilitator” was taken into coalition custody and is being questioned[...] I saw those [autopsy] photos and it didn’t appear there were any handcuffs.”[11]

A US Army press briefing on March 15, 2006 referred to the incident:

“Troops were engaged by enemy fire as they approached the building,” said Tech. Sgt. Stacy Simon, a military spokeswoman. “Coalition forces returned fire utilizing both air and ground assets.”[12]

On March 21, 2006, MSNBC reported that the US Army was opening up an investigation due to this discrepancy:

“‘Because of that discrepancy, we have opened an investigation,’ Lieutenant Colonel Barry Johnson, a senior U.S. spokesman in Baghdad, said on Tuesday.[13]

References

^ a b Schofield, Matthew (March 19, 2006). “Iraqi police report details civilians’ deaths at hands of U.S. troops”. Knight Ridder Newspapers. Retrieved 2006-06-01.
^ a b “New ‘Iraq massacre’ tape emerges”. BBC News. June 1, 2006. Retrieved 2006-06-01.
^ US probes new Iraq massacre claim, BBC News, June 2, 2006
^ “Troops cleared in Iraqi deaths in Ishaqi”. Reuters. Retrieved 2006-06-01.[dead link]
^ Brian Brady, Furious Iraq demands apology as US troops are cleared of massacre, Scotsman.com, June 4, 2006
^ Matthew Schofield, Iraqi police report details civilians’ deaths at hands of U.S. troops, Knight Ridder, March 19, 2006
^ Hala Jaber and Tony Allen-Mills, Iraqis killed by US troops ‘on rampage’, Times Online, March 26, 2006
^ Amer Amery, Iraqis say US raid on home killed 11 family members, Reuters, March 15, 2006
^ Editor & Publisher,Press Accounts Suggest Military ‘Cover-up’ in Ishagi Killings, June 3, 2006
^ 11 reported killed in U.S. raid north of Baghdad, AAP, March 15, 2006
^ Julian Borger, Iraqi police claim US troops executed family, Guardian UK, March 21, 2006
^ Ziad Khalaf, Raid kills 11, mostly women and children, Army Times, March 15, 2006
^ U.S. probes charge troops killed Iraqi family, Reuters, March 21, 2006

See also

Command responsibility
Haditha killings
Hamdania incident
Mahmudiyah incident
Mukaradeeb wedding party massacre
List of military scandals

Wikinews has related news: Iraq rejects US probe clearing US troops of killings civilians in Ishaqi
Here is the WikiNews article on Iraq’s rejection of the official U.S. government lie about the incident.

Iraq rejects US probe clearing US troops of killings civilians in Ishaqi
Saturday, June 3, 2006



Flag of Iraq


Adnan al-Kazimi, an advisor to the Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki, said, “We have from more than one source that the Ishaqi killings were carried out under questionable circumstances. More than one child was killed. This report was not fair for the Iraqi people and the children who were killed”.
The U.S. military yesterday made a statement about Ishaqi allegations that U.S. troops “executed a family … and then hid the alleged crimes by directing an air strike, are absolutely false”. Troops had been fired on and they returned fire and called in air support, which destroyed the house, killing one militant and “up to nine collateral deaths”.
In March, the U.S. military said four people died when they attacked a house suspected of holding an al-Qaida operative. The house was destroyed by fire from the ground and air.
The BBC has video evidence that US forces may have been responsible for the deliberate killing of 11 Iraqi civilians. The videotape, from a hard-line Sunni group opposed to coalition forces, shows a number of dead adults and children at the site. Clearly gunshot wounds according to John Simpson, BBC world affairs.
Local Iraqis said there were 11 total deaths, and claimed that they were killed by U.S. troops before the house was leveled. An unidentified local said, “After they handcuffed them, they shot them dead. Later, they struck the house with their planes. They wanted to hide the evidence. Even a 6-month-old infant was killed. Even the cows were killed, too”
Also according to Associated Press Police in Ishaqi say five children, four women and two men were shot in the head, and that the bodies, with hands bound, were dumped in one room before the house was blown up.
Riyadh Majid, nephew of Faez Khalaf, who was killed, said U.S. forces landed in helicopters and raided the home. Ahmed, Khalaf’s brother said nine of the victims were family members who lived at the house and two were visitors.
The U.S. military said in March that the allegations were being investigated. On Friday U.S. military said it was targeting and captured an individual suspected of supporting foreign fighters of the al-Qaida in Iraq terrorist network. Gen. William Caldwell, a U.S military spokesman acknowledged there were “possibly up to nine collateral deaths”. The ‘collateral deaths’ are:

Turkiya Muhammed Ali, 75 years
Faiza Harat Khalaf, 30 years
Faiz Harat Khalaf, 28 years
Um Ahmad, 23 years
Sumaya Abdulrazak, 22 years
Aziz Khalil Jarmoot, 22 years
Hawra Harat Khalaf, 5 years
Asma Yousef Maruf, 5 years
Osama Yousef Maruf, 3 years
Aisha Harat Khalaf, 3 years
Husam Harat Khalaf, 6 months

According to Reuters there is a widespread public perception that U.S. troops can shoot and kill with impunity and Iraqi leaders are too weak to do anything about it. Abdullah Hussein, an engineer in Baghdad, says to Reuters “Ishaqi is just another reason why we shouldn’t trust the Americans”, and continue “First they lied about the weapons of mass destruction, then there was the Abu Ghraib prison abuse scandal and now it’s clear to the world they were guilty in Haditha”
John Simpson, BBC Correspondent in Baghdad says “It’s hard to find an Iraqi here who has not suffered, through his family, his friends, from the tough tactics the Americans use”.
Wijdan Michael, Human Rights Minister, said a fact-finding commission would be sent to Ishaqi in the next few days.
Sources

Mariam Karouny and Fredrik Dahl. “Iraq rejects US probe clearing troops of killings” — Reuters, June 3, 2006
“Iraq official rejects US killings report” — Aljazeera.Net, June 3, 2006
“New ‘Iraq massacre’ tape emerges” — BBC, June 2, 2006
“US forces in the frame (RA file)” — BBC, June 3, 2006
“U.S. Accused in Additional Iraqi Civilian Deaths” — Fox News, June 2, 2006
Hamza Hendawi and Kim Gamel. “GIs at Ishaqi Cleared; Haditha Probe Open” — ABC News, Jun 3, 2006

External links

“New ‘Iraq massacre’ tape emerges – audio/video RSS.” — BBC, June 1, 2006


Source: Wikileaks Cable Suggests The US Executed Handcuffed Women And Children Under 5, Including An Infant © Copying or redistribution of this material requires that this license must remain intact with attribution to the content source.Readers who viewed this page, also viewed: Daily Doublespeak 4-7-2010 — Nuclear Expert Says Feds Hiding Truth About Japan Nuclear Reactor Disaster Photos And Videos Of Massive Oil Slick Found At BP’s Deepwater Horizon Gulf Spill Site Police Kill Autistic Man, Taser Mentally Disabled Man Holding Hands Up To Surrender Feds Seek To Counter Imminent Bank Of America Collapse With Demand For Contigency Plans Presenting Goldman Sachs Top Secret “The World Is Ending So Let’s All Profit” Report 30,000 Rioters Will Lynch Journalists If Police Get Access To Raw Video FootageRelated PostsHigh-Level American Officials Admit that the United States Uses False Flag Terror … And Warn of Future Attacks9/11 ANALYSIS: 9/11 and America’s Secret Terror CampaignSocial Media Targeted by Pentagon for “Strategic Communication”  — Read Propaganda and PysOpsWorld Stocks Drop as North Korea Orders Troops To Prepare For War#WikiLeaks – US, France Knew In 2007 Financial Collapse Was Imminent Due To Wall Street FraudFeds Charge Man As Enemy Combatant Supporting Terrorism For Uploading Youtube VideoAfghanistan And Iraq Troop Withdrawal Deadlines To Be Extended, Again, Possibly Until 2024Thomas Drake; ‘Yes’ Would do it AgainAl-Jazeera Blasts The Money Trail Funding The Nuclear Industry Cover Up Of The Fukushima DisasterThe Wall Street Pentagon Papers: Biggest Scam In World History Exposed – Are The Federal Reserve’s Crimes Too Big To Comprehend?Oslo Terror Attacks Being Used To Justify Sinister Cyber Surveillance ProgramsSMOKING GUN: PREPARATION FOR WAR ON THE PEOPLEU.S Government Smuggled Missiles, Grenades And Other Military Grade Weapons To Mexico Drug CartelsSinister Cyber Surveillance Plot Revealed In Fascinating Glimpse Into World Of Fascist Black OpsInvestigation: 75% Of US Nuclear Power Plants Leaking Radiation Into Drinking Water Up To 750 Times Legal Limits10 Indications The United States Is A Dictatorship





FeedBurner delivers the world's subscriptions wherever they need to go. Publish a feed for text or podcasting? 
You should try FeedBurner today.


