Citizen WElls | Obama eligibility, Obama news





Citizen WElls


Obama eligibility, Obama news


Skip to content
HomeAboutDonate to the CauseKerchner V Obama LawsuitObama IndictmentPhilip J Berg LawsuitProtecting Obama, Justice Dept. CollusionUS Constitution Hall of Shame











← Older posts



Neil Abercrombie Obama birth certificate facts, Abercrombie found no birth certificate, Exists in the archives written down

Posted on September 5, 2011 by citizenwells| 15 Comments


Neil Abercrombie Obama birth certificate facts, Abercrombie found no birth certificate, Exists in the archives written down
“Oh the tangled web we weave, when first we practice to deceive.”
“Birds of a feather flock together.”
“Why has Obama, since taking the White House, used Justice Department Attorneys, at taxpayer expense,  to avoid presenting a legitimate birth certificate and college records?”…Citizen Wells and millions of concerned Americans
In a review that I wrote on September 2, 2011 of John Woodman’s new book, “Is Barack Obama’s Birth Certificate a Fraud?”, I wrote the following:
“Governor Abercrombie stated that he could find no birth certifcate for Obama. Only a notation.”
Mr. Woodman responded to that statement and others that I made.
“Instead, he claims, “Governor Abercrombie stated that he could find no birth certifcate for Obama. Only a notation,” — completely ignoring the evidence that I presented in the book as to what Governor Abercrombie actually did and did not say.
We might ask Mr. Wells to provide proof of his statement, to give us a direct and verified quote from Governor Abercrombie in which the Governor specifically stated that he found no birth certificate, and that he instead only found a notation.
But he can’t, because it doesn’t exist. I’ve looked.”
The astute reader will immediately notice that I did not provide a direct quote of Abercrombie. Instead I provided an accurate representation of what Abercrombie said and did.
Here are the facts.
From a Honolulu Star Advewrtiser of Governor Abercrombie January 18, 2011.
“Q: You stirred up quite a controversy with your comments regarding birthers and your plans to release more information regarding President Barack Obama’s birth certificate. How is that coming?
A: I got a letter from someone the other day who was genuinely concerned about it; it is not all just political agenda. They were talking on Olelo last night about this; it has a political implication for 2012 that we simply cannot have.
(Abercrombie said there is a recording of the birth in the State Archives and he wants to use that.)
It was actually written I am told, this is what our investigation is showing, it actually exists in the archives, written down …
…What I can do, and all I have ever said, is that I am going to see to it as governor that I can verify to anyone who is honest about it that this is the case.”
Read more:
http://www.staradvertiser.com/editorials/20110118_This_is_a_collaborative_endeavor.html
Anyone with average reading comprehension skills and vocabulary should notice that Abercrombie states “written down”  and that is one of the definitions of notation.
Next for my use of the word stated, one of the definitions of state.
State (verb): To express or present in a non verbal way.
Implied assertion: Evidence of the truth of some fact that can be inferred from some statement, behaviour, or conduct put forward as evidence in court.
Assertion: Positive statement.
To the best of my knowledge, Governor Abercrombie has not announced that he has located an original birth certificate proving Hawaiian birth for Obama.
Anyone really seeking the truth would be statisfied with the facts presented above. However, as the regulars on this blog are aware, I always try to provide as much verification as possible.
Mike Evans, a celebrity journalist, is a friend  of Governor Neil Abercrombie. Evans confirms that Abercrombie could find no birth certificate for Obama. Evans then trys to backtrack, but gets caught.
From The NY Daily News January 27, 2011.
“Evans went on to tell KQRS that he talked “with Neil’s office, Neil says that he’s searched everywhere using his power as governor” at the two hospitals Obama was likely born at in 1961 – Kapiolani Medical Center and Queens Medical Center – only to come up empty.
“There is no Barack Obama birth certificate in Hawaii,” Evans claimed he was told by the governor’s office. “Absolutely no proof that he was born in Hawaii… now [Abercrombie] admits, publically, that there is no birth certificate.”
Evans now says it was all a big misunderstanding.”
Read more:
http://articles.nydailynews.com/2011-01-27/news/27738132_1_barack-obama-president-obama-birth-certificate
From American Thinker February 13, 2011.
“But less than a month later, when it was Abercrombie’s turn to produce the long form, he turned up empty-handed, and instead offered some ambiguous lines about something “written down” that “actually exists.”
Enter a new player to the game: journalist friend of Abercrombie, Mike Evans, on the radio a few days later touting “There is no Barack Obama birth certificate in Hawaii — absolutely no proof at all that he was born in Hawaii.” Evans backtracked after the story went national, saying he “misspoke” and had not conversed personally with Abercrombie, and that this error occurred in only one of the 34 interviews he had done that morning.  Further research, however, found that Evans repeated his misstatement more than once and “appeared to be reading from a script and ad-libbing around it as he read.”"
Read more:
 http://www.americanthinker.com/2011/02/the_birther_card.html


 

→ 15 Comments

Posted in News, United States, Barack Obama, Obama records, Natural born citizen, Birth Certificate, Hawaii, Citizens for the truth about Obama, The Case Against Barack Obama, Obama Nation, US Constitution, Washington DC, white house, Obama, Health Department, fraud, Attorneys, Obama lies, Lawyers, constitution, Citizen News, CitizenWells, Eligibility 

Tagged Neil Abercrombie Obama birth certificate facts, Abercrombie found no birth certificate, Exists in the archives written down 



Colin Powell Obama coverup, General Powell NPR comments edited, Natural Born Citizen not citizen is the requirement

Posted on September 5, 2011 by citizenwells| 53 Comments


Colin Powell Obama coverup, General Powell NPR comments edited, Natural Born Citizen not citizen is the requirement
“Why has Obama, since taking the White House, used Justice Department Attorneys, at taxpayer expense,  to avoid presenting a legitimate birth certificate and college records?”…Citizen Wells and millions of concerned Americans
“As soon as all the corrections which happened to be necessary in any partiucular number of the Times had been assembled and collated, that number would be reprinted, the original copy destroyed, and the corrected copy placed on the files in it’s stead. This process of continuation alteration was applied not only to newspapers, but to books, periodicals, pamphlets, posters, leaflets, films, sound tracks, cartoons, photographs–to every kind of literature or documentation which might conceivably hold any political or ideological significance. Day by day and almost minute by minute the past was brought up to date. In this way every prediction made by the Party could be shown by documentary evidence to be correct; nor was any item of news, or expression of opinion, which conflicted with the needs of the moment, ever allowed to be on record.”…George Orwell, “1984″ 
From Birther Summit September 5, 2011.
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Contact: Dean C. Haskins 
202.241.3648
dean@birthersummit.orgThis e-mail address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it 
Posted: September 5, 2011
© 2011 The Birther Summit
Download a PDF 
UPDATE: NPR SCRUBS POWELL’S STATEMENT ABOUT THE BIRTHER SUMMIT CHALLENGE
UPDATE: BirtherReport.com provides before and after audio and screenshots
In a recent NPR interview, Gen. Colin Powell stated, “The president had to produce his birth certificate because there was still this coterie of people in the country who won’t believe. And even after he produced his long-form birth certificate, and Mr. Trump decided he better find another thing to do besides run for president, there are still people who don’t accept that.In fact, as you may have noticed, some people are trying to persuade me to listen to their arguments as to why he is not a citizen, and I don’t choose to participate in that any longer. We’ve spent enough time on this issue. President Obama was born in the United States. He was born in Hawaii. He’s shown his certificates, and the rest of this is just conspiratorial nonsense.” Click here to listen to Powell’s original statement.
 
However, NPR’s Morning Edition website now shows the following statement in their transcript of that interview: “. . . The president had to produce his birth certificate because there was still this coterie of people in the country who won’t believe. And even after he produced his long-form birth certificate, and Mr. Trump decided he better find another thing to do besides run for president. There are still people who don’t accept that. We spent enough time on this issue. The rest of this is just conspiratorial nonsense.”
 
The Birther Summit is unaware of who might have requested the redaction, but Powell’s original comments have certainly been edited. As to any notion that Gen. Powell might not have been speaking specifically about The Birther Summit’s challenge of him, it can be concluded easily that he would not have been speaking about any other group, as The Birther Summit is the only one that has publicly challenged him to such a discussion. Before discussing Powell’s comments, The Birther Summit does want to assert that NPR’s journalistic dishonesty in this seems to underscore the public’s perception of NPR’s vastly left-leaning bias, and is generally indicative of the national media as a whole.
As to his original comments, it is clear that Gen. Powell is still running cover for Barack Obama, as his statement is devoid of fact. First, it is apparent to many Americans that what Barack Obama released on April 27, 2011 was a blatantly cheap computer-generated image that was not a scan, copy, or photograph of any real document. Next, Gen. Powell stated “. . . some people are trying to persuade me to listen to their arguments as to why he is not a citizen.” Reading through our challenge, it is obvious that it included no statement that Barack Obama is not a citizen; however, as those of us who have been lifting the banner of truth in this for nearly three years have become accustomed, this is a common straw-man argument that deceptive liberals use (please pardon our redundant use of “deceptive”).
 
The fact of the matter is, the general public has no way of knowing whether or not Barack Obama is a “citizen” because he has provided no evidence to settle that matter conclusively, as forgeries establish nothing factual. However, The Birther Summit is fully prepared to present evidence that Barack Obama is not a “natural born Citizen,” as required by Article II, Section 1 of the Constitution. Gen. Powell conveniently forgot the “natural born” part in his comment. Arnold Schwarzenegger is a “citizen,” Gen. Powell, but you know that he cannot be president.
 
Next, Powell said, “. . . I don’t choose to participate in that any longer. We’ve spent enough time on this issue.” It was just this past May when Powell publicly stated that he enjoyed it when, “President Obama took out his birth certificate and blew away Donald Trump and all the birthers!” So, it appears that Gen. Powell is willing to “participate in that” on his terms, but refuses to be called out on the issue when it is understood he will be confronted with the facts, and those facts don’t line up with his statements.
 
Powell concluded his remarks about this with, “He was born in Hawaii. He’s shown his certificates, and the rest of this is just conspiratorial nonsense.” Unless Colin Powell has been privy to what has been hidden from the rest of the world, that statement was foolish at best, and purposely dishonest at worst. Moreover, to try to marginalize the issue by calling it “conspiratorial nonsense,” especially before actually hearing the evidence, is further proof of Colin Powell’s complicity in the matter. The Birther Summit believes that rendering a decision on a matter before weighing the evidence is an unwise posture for anyone to maintain.
 
Here is retired Commander Charles Kerchner’s response to Gen. Powell’s comments:
 
“Colin Powell is bringing much dishonor upon himself in not standing up to support and defend the U.S. Constitution in the face of the clear and present danger in having a person, Obama, occupying the White House and in command of our military, for whom we do not conclusively know, and proven to any controlling legal authority, his true legal identity. In addition Collin Powell is saying nothing about Obama’s revealed history of engaging in criminal felonies and activities before and after his accession to the Oval Office, i.e., SSN fraud, Draft Registration fraud, and forging Birth Certificate documents. Both the long-form and the short-form are clear forgeries per numerous digital image and typographic experts. 
 
You would think the proven draft registration fraud by Obama would definitely get the attention of what had been an outstanding military leader such as Powell. He has abandoned all the teachings military leadership as to duty and honor and adherence to common core values of truth and honesty. General Powell is now clearly shirking his oath as a commissioned officer to support and defend the U.S. Constitution. He cannot intellectually honestly say he does not know about the charges against Obama and the seriousness of them and the threat our nation faces with a usurper of unknown true legal ID as Commander in Chief of our military and the need for Congress to launch a congressional investigation of these charges under oath and with full subpoena power to get to the original paper documents in question as to Obama’s contemporaneous 1961 birth registration records, SSN records, and draft registration records. 
 
Powell had a highly successful military career up to this time and this incident and challenge. However, he is failing the call of duty and honor in not confronting the usurper in the White House who is trampling on the U.S. Constitution and presents a great danger to our national security. Powell is failing to provide honest and honorable leadership to support and defend the U.S. Constitution and the Rule of Law and live up to his commissioned officer’s oath at a critical time in our nation’s history. History will not be too kind to General Powell for what he has and has not done on the issue of exposing Obama’s true legal identity and criminal activities and that he is instead acting and speaking in ways to facilitate the original fraud and the continuing cover-up. 
 
I once admired and respected General Collin Powell. I no longer do. If I met him in his uniform at this point in time, I would salute the uniform but not the man! At some point in his life Powell has allowed the Washington DC political cesspool to totally corrupt him and any sense of honor he once had during his military career. He is disgracing and dishonoring his oath to the U.S. Constitution.”
 
Additionally, Lt. Commander Walt Fitzpatrick (Ret) has done extensive work to expose the numerous commissions of treason committed by Barack Obama, which causes one to wonder how a decorated military hero like Gen. Colin Powell could be so unaware of the multiple dubious issues surrounding someone to whom he openly lends his loyal support, if those issues are so obvious to other military officer veterans. Actually, we stopped “wondering” quite some time ago. Whether Colin Powell is running cover for Barack Obama because of Obama’s race or his politics is immaterial, as he is supporting an illegal president—one who has gone to great lengths to obfuscate his true identity. A true soldier who respects his oath, as well as the principles of duty, honor, and country, would unequivocally oppose the current resident of our White House.
 
Whom do you think we should challenge?
 
While our original offer to Gen. Powell stands, and it is apparent that many citizens would like to see him do the right thing in this by listening honestly to the evidence and allowing a charity to receive $15,000, it appears that Gen. Powell, as well as the four television commentators we subsequently included, continue to dodge it. Because of that, The Birther Summit is open to YOUR suggestions regarding whom you think we should challenge next. Just visit our Contact page and offer your suggestions about who should be added to the list of people who are (so far) afraid of the facts (apparently, so much so that they will not offer three hours of their time for a charity to receive a check for $15,000). Please also explain why you would like to see the person(s) you suggest added to our challenge. Remember, elected officials cannot be a part of the challenge, as they would not be able to be a part of a challenge that includes a monetary reward.
 

→ 53 Comments

Posted in Barack Obama, Birth Certificate, Citizen News, Citizens for the truth about Obama, CitizenWells, constitution, Eligibility, Generals, Internet scrubbing, Lawyers, Lies, Military officers, Natural born citizen, News, Obama, Obama lies, Obama Nation, Obama records, The Case Against Barack Obama, United States, US Constitution, Washington DC, white house 

Tagged Colin Powell Obama coverup, General Powell NPR comments edited, Natural Born Citizen not citizen is the requirement 



Patrick Fitzgerald apolitical?, Fitzgerald attacked Republicans protected Obama, Chicago Tribune protecting Obama?

Posted on September 3, 2011 by citizenwells| 164 Comments


Patrick Fitzgerald apolitical?, Fitzgerald attacked Republicans protected Obama, Chicago Tribune protecting Obama?
From the Chicago Tribune August 28, 2011.
“Patrick Fitzgerald’s decade
His apolitical ground war against public corruption argues for keeping
patronage out of these appointments.”
“Which brings us to an excellent argument for keeping these
appointments apolitical: If the traditional patronage system of naming
U.S. attorneys in Chicago consistently had produced the best possible
top prosecutors, would the Illinois culture of political sleaze have
become as rampant, as pervasive, as it had grown by the turn of this
century?”
“U.S. attorneys nationwide serve at the pleasure of the president. Thus
far the current one, Barack Obama, has kept his campaign promise to
leave Fitzgerald in Chicago rather than replace him or, almost as bad,
promote him to oblivion higher in the U.S. Department of Justice.”
“Until he says otherwise, then, we trust that Patrick Fitzgerald will
keep rolling out indictments where they’re warranted.”
Read more:
http://www.chicagotribune.com/news/opinion/editorials/ct-edit-fitzgerald-20110828,0,7027468.story
Is it a  coincidence that this story, praising Patrick Fitzgerald for being apolitical, came out the same day that Colin Powell blasted Dick Cheney and his book that reveals the truth about what Powell knew about the Valerie Plame outing and the involvement of Patrick Fitzgerald?
Patrick Fitzgerald apolitical? Hardly!
Why would Obama want Fitzgerald to leave Chicago? Fitzgerald and Holder protect Obama. 
From Citizen Wells July 15, 2010.
Blagojevich trial
Protecting Obama
Part 4
Blagojevich arrest  intentially delayed
“I was not going to wait until March or April or May to get it all nice and tidy”
“I think that would be irresponsible.”…Patrick Fitzgerald, December 9, 2008, Blagojevich arrest
Those are interesting statements by Fitzgerald.
The question is, why did Patrick Fitzgerald and the US Justice Department wait until December 2008 to arrest Rod Blagojevich?
The prosecution in the Rod Blagojevich trial rested their case Tuesday, July 13, 2010.
Tony Rezko has not been called to the witness stand. Nor has Stuart Levine. Nor have a host of others with corruption ties to Blagojevich and Obama.
The US Justice Department had plenty of evidence indicting Rod Blagojevich by 2006. Why did the US Justice Department wait until December 2008, after the election, to arrest Blagojevich?
Who made the decision to wait to indict Blagojevich?
Was Patrick Fitzgerald involved in this decision?
“I think that would be irresponsible.” Yes, Fitzgerald, I agree.
From the Blagojevich complaint December 7, 2008.
“From in or about 2002 to the present, in Cook County, in the Northern District of Illinois, defendants did, conspire with each other and with others to devise and participate in a scheme to defraud the State of Illinois and the people of the State of Illinois of the honest services of ROD R. BLAGOJEVICH and JOHN HARRIS, in furtherance of which the mails and interstate wire communications would be used, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Sections 1341,1343, and 1346; all in violation of Title 18 United States Code, Section 1349.
“Since approximately 2003, the government has been investigating allegations of illegal activity occurring in State of Illinois government as part of the administration of Governor ROD BLAGOJEVICH. As further detailed below, the investigation has developed evidence that: (a) beginning not later than in or about 2002, ROD BLAGOJEVICH has conspired with multiple individuals, including, beginning not later than in or about October 2008, JOHN HARRIS, to devise and participate in a scheme, which used and contemplated the use of the mails and interstate wire communications, to defraud the State of Illinois and its residents of the honest services of ROD BLAGOJEVICH and JOHN HARRIS by corruptly using the office of Governor of the State of Illinois to obtain and attempt to obtain personal gain, including financial gain, for ROD BLAGOJEVICH and third parties with whom he is associated;”
Blagojevich’s involvement in corruption did not begin in 2008.
“From in or about 2002 to the present, in Cook County”
“Since approximately 2003, the government has been investigating allegations of illegal activity occurring in State of Illinois government as part of the administration of Governor ROD BLAGOJEVICH.”
http://www.justice.gov/usao/iln/pr/chicago/2008/pr1209_01a.pdf
From the Stuart Levine Indictment, May 9, 2005. (The SPECIAL MARCH 2004 GRAND JURY charges)
“CHICAGO – Three Chicago area executives – one of them a former member of the Illinois Health Facilities Planning Board, which controls medical facility construction projects in Illinois, and one a managing director of Bear Stearns & Co., an investment firm that arranges financing for public works projects in Illinois – were indicted on federal charges for allegedly engaging in insider-dealing, influence-peddling, kickbacks and corruption involving their private interests and public duties, federal officials announced today. One defendant, Stuart Levine, a lawyer and businessman, allegedly engaged in a fraud scheme to obtain a total of at least $9.5 million for himself and certain associates,
Stuart Levine – 19 counts of mail fraud, 4 counts of wire fraud, 2 counts of misapplication of funds, 2 counts of money laundering and one count of extortion – a businessman whose interests included S.L. Investment Enterprises, L.P., and a former member of the Illinois Health Facilities Planning Board (Planning Board), a state commission appointed by the Governor that grants or denies a permit, known as a “Certificate of Need” (CON), to build hospitals, physician offices or other medical facilities statewide. Levine was also a member of the board of trustees of Rosalind Franklin University of Medicine and Science, formerly known as Finch University of Health Sciences/Chicago Medical School (Chicago Medical School or CMS) in North Chicago, and he was chairman of its real estate committee. He was also a trustee of the Northshore Supporting Organization (NSO), a charitable trust that supported Chicago Medical School;”
One of many ties to Rod Blagojevich
“a former member of the Illinois Health Facilities Planning Board (Planning Board), a state commission appointed by the Governor”
http://www.justice.gov/usao/iln/indict/2005/us_v_levine.pdf
Timeline is revealing
Patrick Fitzgerald was aware of Blagojevich’s corruption in 2003
“Pamela Meyer Davis had been trying to win approval from a state health planning board for an expansion of Edward Hospital, the facility she runs in a Chicago suburb, but she realized that the only way to prevail was to retain a politically connected construction company and a specific investment house.
Instead of succumbing to those demands, she went to the FBI and U.S. Attorney Patrick J. Fitzgerald in late 2003 and agreed to secretly record conversations about the project.”
Read more
June 7, 2004: Stuart Levine, a longtime Republican reappointed to the powerful Illinois Health Facilities Planning Board, abruptly resigns on the eve of several important hospital expansion votes. The revelation is the first indication that the Blagojevich administration is under federal criminal investigation.
June 27, 2004: The Tribune discloses that an official for one hospital seeking permission to expand was wearing a federal bug during meetings in an effort to expose extortion attempts by Levine and others for contributions to Blagojevich.
July 2, 2004: Levine resigns from his seat on the board of the state Teachers’ Retirement System. It remains undisclosed that federal authorities had secretly taped Levine’s conversations.
May 9, 2005: Levine is indicted on corruption charges. Federal subpoenas are issued to numerous administration sources, including top Blagojevich fundraiser Antoin “Tony” Rezko
May 20, 2005: The governor’s office acknowledges to the Tribune that Rezko has an ongoing eight-year professional relationship with Patricia Blagojevich’s home-based real estate brokerage, River Realty Inc.
Sept 15, 2005: Prominent Democratic fundraiser Joseph Cari and a former lawyer for the state’s teacher’s pension board pleads guilty in an extortion scheme that steered state pension business to favored companies in exchange for campaign contributions to a high-ranking public official described in court documents only as “Public official A.”
Oct. 25, 2005: The Tribune discloses a federal grand jury investigation into the alleged political hiring practices of the Blagojevich administration, including the governor’s top hiring aide, Joseph Cini.
Sept. 10, 2006: The Tribune reveals that the FBI is investigating allegations by a one-time Blagojevich family friend that she had concerns her state job may have come in return for a $1,500 personal check her husband wrote to one of Blagojevich’s children.
Sept. 17, 2006: The Tribune reports that the Blagojevich administration skirted state hiring rules to give jobs to at least 360 people whose applications were sent through back channels by the governor’s offices and politically connected officials.
Aug. 5, 2006: The Tribune reports that Levine is cooperating with the federal investigation of state government.
Oct. 11, 2006: Blagojevich confidant and top fundraiser Rezko is indicted on federal charges he sought millions of dollars in kickbacks and campaign donations from firms seeking state business.
Oct. 27, 2006: Political insider Levine pleads guilty in a scheme to squeeze millions of dollars from firms seeking state business. In court papers, federal authorities spell out allegations that Rezko and another schemer, identified by sources as Blagojevich confidant and top fundraiser Christopher Kelly, were using their influence for corrupt purposes.
Read more
Before the Tony Rezko trial began in March 2008, the USDOJ and the FBI had more than enough to arrest Blagojevich and plenty on Obama. Stuart Levine had already provided the information revealed in the trial and more.
Patrick Fitzgerald obtains more details of Obama’s ties to Rezko and corruption in 2007.
Kenneth J Conner was a whistleblower in the Rezko Obama lot sale transaction. Conner was interviewed by the FBI in 2007.
From the Washington Times, November 4, 2008.
“A former Illinois real estate specialist says FBI agents have questioned him about a Chicago property that had been bought by convicted felon Tony Rezko’s wife and later sold to the couple’s next-door neighbor, Sen. Barack Obama.
The real estate specialist, Kenneth J. Conner, said bank officials replaced an appraisal review he prepared on the property and FBI agents were investigating in late 2007 whether the Rezko-Obama deal was proper.
“Agents and I talked about payoff, bribe, kickback for a long time, though it took them only a short number of minutes of talking with me while looking at the appraisal to acknowledge what they already seemed to know: The Rezko lot was grossly overvalued,” Mr. Conner told The Washington Times Monday.
“Rezko paid the asking price on the same day Obama paid $300,000 less than the asking price to the same seller for his adjacent mansion,” he said. “This begs the question of payoff, bribe, kickback.””
Read more
I have had many conversations with Mr. Conner, on and off the record.
By delaying the arrest of Blagojevich, two important things occurred.
More harm was done to the citizens of Illinois.
Obama was spared prosecution and association with crime figures. This allowed Obama to win the election.
Before the Rezko trial ended, the Illinois senate attempted a recall against Blagojevich.
Why wasn’t Blagojevich arrested by then?
May 2, 2008
“SPRINGFIELD—The Illinois Senate on Thursday narrowly defeated a measure aimed at giving voters a chance to recall Gov. Rod Blagojevich, but lawmakers on both sides of the issue blasted the embattled governor during a debate that raised statehouse tensions to a new level.”
Read more
Here are just a few bits of testimony from the Rezko trial. The government had this information many months before.
March 21, 2008
“Stuart Levine thought he had hit the jackpot when he teamed up with Antoin “Tony” Rezko, the fundraiser for Gov. Rod Blagojevich who seemed to be able to get the administration to do anything he wanted. Levine’s third day on the stand at Rezko’s corruption trial was a sometimes wandering exploration of how Levine and Rezko exploited that immense clout in a variety of schemes to allegedly line their pockets.
“I have never been in a better position than I am right now,” Levine was heard bragging on a government wiretap. “Part of the reason is because there’s never been such tight control of the central apparatus. This guy is making decisions ? and can get anything done that he wants done.””
March 19, 2008
“But Blagojevich’s name has been mentioned often. It was brought up at least 30 times Wednesday morning by Stuart Levine, the government’s star witness against Rezko.
At one point, Levine described a flight from New York that he shared with Blagojevich Oct. 29, 2003. Levine had chartered the plane to ferry Blagojevich and others to a series of fundraisers.
On the return to Chicago, Levine said he took the opportunity to thank Blagojevich for re-appointing him to a seat on a state hospital regulatory board that prosecutors now say he and Rezko had corrupted to extort kickbacks from firms seeking regulatory approval.
Levine said the governor responded, “Never discuss any state board with me, discuss them with either Tony Rezko or Chris Kelly.” Kelly, along with Rezko, was a top fundraiser for Blagojevich as well as a close friend.
Then Levine said Blagojevich added: “But you stick with us and you’ll do very well for yourself.”
Asked by a prosecutor to elaborate, Levine said, “I took that to mean you have an opportunity to make a lot of money.””
http://www.chicagotribune.com/news/local/chi-rezko-court-story-7,0,5224754.htmlstory
This is important!
Even if the USDOJ was waiting for the Rezko trial to end. It ended in June 2008, well before the election.
Obviously they did not need Rezko’s testimony.
It is obvious from the above that the feds had plenty on Blagojevich.
Now read remarks made by Fitzgerald and the USDOJ.
Fitzgerald aggressively prosecuted Republicans
Former Gov. George Ryan December 31, 2003
“Mr. Fitzgerald announced that he was prosecuting former Gov. George Ryan, a Republican, in a scandal that had been swirling around long before Mr. Fitzgerald got here and that many people thought would never touch the most powerful politicians in Illinois. But there Mr. Fitzgerald was, a week before Christmas, ticking off the details of a 91-page indictment against Mr. Ryan, seemingly from memory.”
Through a spokeswoman, Mr. Fitzgerald declined to be interviewed for this article. Instead, the office issued the four-sentence release. ”Mr. Fitzgerald will become engaged on the matter immediately,” the release said. ”Consistent with the usual practice concerning investigations, Mr. Fitzgerald does not intend to comment any further.”
http://www.nytimes.com/2003/12/31/us/man-in-the-news-an-independent-prosecutor-patrick-j-fitzgerald.html?ref=patrick_j_fitzgerald&pagewanted=2
Fitzgerald did not wait years to go after Libby and Rove.
“It was at the insistence of Rove’s lawyer, Donald Luskin, that Rove went back and re-examined his call logs and discovered the call to Cooper. Rove presented that information to the Grand Jury and the astonished Fitzgerald whose team had missed it.
But curiously, Fitzgerald attempted to use this disclosure to accuse Rove of being misleading in earlier testimony where he had failed to recall the phone conversation.
It became clear to Rove that Fitzgerald wasn’t looking for a violation of law in the Plame case but to set a perjury trap and carve another notch on his belt by bagging a top White House honcho.”
http://www.floppingaces.net/2010/06/18/karl-roves-lessons-learned/
MAY 9, 2005
Stuart Levine Indictment
“Individuals who serve on public boards or boards or private institutions and charities must serve the interests of the public or the institution and not steal for themselves,” Mr. Fitzgerald said. “Beyond owing basic duties of honesty and integrity, hospital Planning Board members play an important role in providing access to health care while containing costs. The indictment charges that Levine instead sold out his duties and gave out state approvals and hospital contracts on the basis of ‘who you know’ and worse, ‘who you pay,’” he added.
http://www.justice.gov/usao/iln/indict/2005/us_v_levine.pdf
Levine pleads guilty October 11, 2006
“Levine, 60, of Highland Park, a lawyer who also served on the Illinois Health Facilities Planning Board (Planning Board), was charged in the same counts as Rezko in the superseding indictment. Levine, whose attorney, Jeffrey Steinback, authorized the government to disclose that Levine is cooperating with the government, is scheduled to plead guilty in the TRS case on Oct. 27 before U.S. District Judge Amy St. Eve.”
““This indictment describes a frenzy of corrupt scheming, particularly in April and May 2004, in which political insiders sought to manipulate the activities of two state boards to fleece investment firms and individuals. The defendants and their associates put the word out loud and clear: you have to pay to play in Illinois,” Mr. Fitzgerald said.”
http://www.justice.gov/usao/iln/pr/chicago/2006/pr1011_01.pdf
Blagojevich arrest December 9, 2008
“Fitzgerald said, “We make no allegations” that Obama was aware of any alleged scheming by Blagojevich.”
“Fitzgerald called the corruption charges against Blagojevich “a truly new low.””
“Robert Grant, FBI special agent in charge of the Chicago office, characterized Illinois’ place in the pantheon of political corruption.
“If it isn’t the most corrupt state in the United States, it’s certainly one hell of a competitor,” Grant said. “Even the most cynical agents in our office were shocked.””
“Fitzgerald said the investigation into Blagojevich continues, but authorities acted today to avoid further harm taking place.
“I was not going to wait until March or April or May to get it all nice and tidy” and bring charges, he said. “I think that would be irresponsible.””
http://www.chicagobreakingnews.com/2008/12/us-attorney-fitzgerald-press-conference-blagojevich.html
It is apparent to me that a deal was struck with the US Justice Department and that Patrick Fitzgerald was involved in the decision or minimally, was aware of it. The Justice Dept. had more than enough evidence to indict Blagojevich at the latest by the time Stuart Levine agreed to cooperate by August 5, 2006. They actually had enough wiretap evidence without Levine cooperating. Once Blagojevich was too tainted by investigation and Obama was being groomed for the presidency, Obama had to be protected.
Let me make this perfectly clear. I am accusing the US Justice Department of corruption, of being complicit in delaying the arrest of Rod Blagojevich until after the 2008 elections. Furthermore, the Justice Department has purposefully reworded the Indictment and refrained from calling witnesses and revealing testimony that would be further damning for Blagojevich and Obama. This is a criminal act which must be prosecuted.
I am calling for a congressional investigation.
I am also calling for more whistleblowers to come forward. Your identity will be protected.
More US Justice Department corruption coverage to come.
http://citizenwells.wordpress.com/2010/07/15/blagojevich-trial-us-justice-department-corruption-protecting-obama-part-4-patrick-fitzgerald-blagojevich-trial-delay-and-selling-of-senate-seat/
 

→ 164 Comments

Posted in Attorney General, Attorneys, Barack Obama, Blagojevich, Blagojevich trial, Chicago, Chicago machine, Chicago Tribune, Citizen News, Citizens for the truth about Obama, CitizenWells, corruption, Eric Holder, FBI, Illinois, News, Obama, Obama lies, Obama Nation, Obama records, Patrick Fitzgerald, Pay to play politics, The Case Against Barack Obama, Tony Rezko, US Department of Justice, Washington DC, white house 

Tagged Chicago Tribune protecting Obama?, Fitzgerald attacked Republicans protected Obama, Patrick Fitzgerald apolitical? 



John Woodman book “Is Barack Obama’s Birth Certificate a Fraud?”, Citizen Wells analysis and review, Another messenger shooter, Woodman’s motivation

Posted on September 2, 2011 by citizenwells| 111 Comments


John Woodman book “Is Barack Obama’s Birth Certificate a Fraud?”, Citizen Wells analysis and review, Another messenger shooter, Woodman’s motivation
“There is an epidemic of messenger shooting in this country.”.”…Citizen Wells
“Why has Obama, since taking the White House, used Justice Department Attorneys, at taxpayer expense,  to avoid presenting a legitimate birth certificate and college records?”…Citizen Wells and millions of concerned Americans
***  UPDATE BELOW  ***
Preface:
I had pretty well formulated most of what I was about to write up until a few minutes ago. I was leaning toward giving John Woodman more benefit of the doubt. However, after mulling this over for a few more minutes a disturbing trend or puzzle picture emerged. A number of things Mr. Woodman has stated, used as evidence or omitted concern me. Whether this occurred at the subsconscious level or intentional level I do not know. John Woodman has stated and the premise of his book is debunking the debunkers. He seems more concerned about doing this than arriving at the truth about Obama’s eligibility and whether or not the image placed on WhiteHouse.gov proves a Hawaiian birth for Obama. More on this at the conclusion.
My analysis:
Bold face type used below to emphasize important points.
John Woodman has written and published a book titled “Is Barack Obama’s Birth Certificate a Fraud?”. I contacted Mr. Woodman several days ago to find out more about the book and his motives for writing it. We have similar work and education backgrounds and we had a pleasant series of email exchanges. I explained my motivation to Mr. Woodman and that I would notify him when I respond. Mr. Woodman has done a good job of analyzing the PDF file and explaining his methodology.
I have well over 30 years experience in Information Technology beginning in 1968 over a broad base of software, hardware and application areas. I have extensively researched and written about Barack Obama. My only motivation is love of and concern for this country. Perhaps my knowledge of Obama, his documented  pattern of lies and deception, has better prepared me to evaluate the image placed on WhiteHouse.gov with a clearer lens. With my decoder ring on Orwellian language interpret settings. Mr. Woodman stayed true to his objective of debunking the debunkers. There is no reason thus far for me to believe he had a hidden agenda. However, before I continue, my biggest overall criticism of Mr. Woodman is this. The burden of proof is on Obama. Even Little League participants are required to submit a photostatic copy of an original birth certificate. Mr. Woodman is guilty of shooting the messengers.
“Is Barack Obama’s Birth Certificate a Fraud?
I understand that John Woodman probably used that title for publishing purposes, to catch the attention of the public. However, from an objective analysis standpoint, that begins the process with an unproved assumption. And furthermore, Mr. Woodman continues with that nomenclature throughout the book. To his credit, he does mention a few times that the image may be a fraud, but the trend was already established and per Orwell, Hitler and Goebbels, the “lie” was repeated and therefore to be believed.
The correct description and one that I have adhered to when writing about it is:
Is the image placed on WhiteHouse.gov a photostatic copy of a legitimate long form birth certificate for Obama proving birth in Hawaii?
The difference between these 2 statements is crucial in determining the truth.
Why is this important?
1. An image was placed on WhiteHouse.gov with absolutely no proof of chain of document, one that with a cursory examination is highly suspect. Even if proven to have come from the Hawaii Department of Health, it may simply be an abstract.
2. The Hawaii statutes in 1961 and today allow for a birth certificate for a non Hawaiian birth.
Mr. Woodman makes the following “hasty conclusion” or over generalization on Page 205 of his book:
“How Do The Experts Score?”
“So why do the “for’s” at this point, outnumber the against’s?”
Part of the answer is that a few of the individuals in the “for” group have experience and points of view that may not be adequate for, or not quite applicable to, the task. One is a teenager; one is mostly a business owner; another is mostly a financial specialist; one is a writer of non-technical books.
Another is a typographer working with distorted fonts.”
So business owners are incapable of analysis and drawing proper conclusions? This reminds me of the classic attitude of the left and so called intellectuals.
Mr. Woodman, I am uniquely qualified to offer my analysis.
Some of Mr. Woodman’s assertions are wrong or misleading.
From Page 207:
“Dr. Corsi has publicly promoted, either in writing or on the radio, at least twenty-three evidence-of-fraud theories that we cover in this book.
In writing and speaking about his own theories as well as those of others, he has publicly identified the following as potential indicators of fraud:
the nature of the layers
alleged editing of items on the certificate
the white halo
the duplicated characters
the date stamps
the “scanner with x-ray vision
the altered PDF posted at archiveindex.com by Doug Vogt
the supposed kerning
comparison with the “African birth” forgery
the supposed lack of text curvature
the apparent lack of a seal
the alignment of Ann Dunham Obama’s signature
the supposed existence of “hidden text”
the idea that a different document exists
the out-of-sequence birth certificate number
Paul Irey’s theory of different typefaces
the supposed misspelling of the word “THE”
the supposed “smiley face” in the signature stamp
the supposed record of the forger’s initials
the supposed lack of hospital records for Mrs. Obama
the discrepancy in Barack Obama, Sr,’s age
the allegations by Tim Adams
and the idea that Governor Abercrombie had stated that no birth certificate existed.
As we have seen, not a single one of these twenty-three alleged indicators or “proofs” that the document is a fraud or invalid really holds up under close examination..
Not one.”
Semantics! If we strictly look at only the image on WhiteHouse.gov as being tampered with, then perhaps Mr. Woodman can get away with this, although it makes me question his motives. Some of the items above are certainly open to inspection and questioning. However, if our objective is to ascertain whether or not the image represents a legitimate birth certificate, then Tim Adams affidavit and Governor Abercrombie’s statements are highly relevant. And has Mr. Woodman viewed any hospital records for Stanley and little Obama?
On page 217 Mr. Woodman states:
“Also weighing against the idea of a forgery is the fact that any conspiracy  would need to involve:
high officials in Hawaii state government (most likely, stretching across two gubernatorial administrations of both parties)
lower-level Department of Health staff.
probably at least one official from the White House
most likely some intelligence agency personnel
and Barack Obama himself.
As the number of people required for the conspiracy to work goes up, the likelihood of a successful conspiracy goes down.
Nonetheless, I will admit that it’s possible to believe that a fraud has been committed.”
Tim Adams, documented as having worked in the Honolulu elections office in 2008, has signed an affidavit stating that there was no birth certificate for Obama in Hawaii than and that it was common knowledge. Governor Abercrombie stated that he could find no birth certifcate for Obama. Only a notation.
Tim Adams and Governor Abercrombie may not relate to the image being a fraud, but they certainly do to Obama being one.
Mr. Woodman spends much of his efforts trying to debunk the layers and anomalies pointed out by others. He may be correct about some of his assertions. His explanation for most of this is a software program. By doing so, he is in fact proving that the image is not a photostatic copy.
He further compares the image to that of certified copies for the Nordyke twins. He states that they are from the same type of forms. However, the biggest difference between the 2 images is that the Nordyke twins certificates have a stamped seal and verbage that states:
“This certifies that the above is a true and correct copy of the original record on file.”
The WhiteHouse.com image has the following:
“I certify this is a true copy or abstract of the record on file in the Hawaii State Department of health.”  Alvin T. Onaki, Ph.D.
Abstract: “The term abstract is subject to different meanings, but in a legal sense, it refers to an abbreviated history of an official record.”

I am not certain what Mr. Woodman is trying to prove on Page 182:
“Did Barack Obama pay $2 Million on lawyers in order to avoid releasing his long-form Birth Certificate?”
“No figure is publicly available on what part of the $2.8 million spent by Obama campaign on legal assistance has gone specifically to pay attorneys in Obama’s eligibility lawsuits.”
“Whatever the amount paid by Mr. Obama to his lawyers for his defense, then, it doesn’t appear to be anywhere approaching the amounts that have sometimes been claimed.”
The sums paid in money are enormous and debatable. However, numerous Justice Dept. attorneys at taxpayer expense have been used since early 2009. Mr. Woodman does not mention Robert Bauer, of Perkins Coie, who represented Obama in lawsuits and was hired as White House Counsel by Obama in 2009.
Page 217
“In other words, if the document is a forgery, then – far from being a sloppy one – it must have been done by an absolute professional with almost flawless attention to subtle detail.
Approaching the subject from a bit different angle, Stanley Ann Dunham Obama was a rather different and remarkable young woman. Even so, upon reflection, I find it very unlikely that a white young woman of 18 years would travel by herself, in 1961, literally halfway around the world in order to have her first baby alone in East Africa.
For this reason, the circumstances of the mother weigh against the likelihood of a forgery as well.”
Stanley Ann Dunham Obama was certainly different. I am not sure how he applied logic and onjectivity to arrive at that conclusion. We still have no proof of the location of Obama’s birth. It could have been in Canada for all we know.
Page 221
“I am all for declaring Barack Obama ineligible to be President – if he really is ineligible.
But if nobody can produce hard, credible evidence that that’s the case, then Mr. Obama must be understood to legitimately be occupying the Office of President, and be recognized as the choice – for now, at least – of the American people.”
“For too long, politicians and others in our society have gotten away with bending, even twisting the truth. Some have freely profited from doing so, and often at the people’s expense.”
Mr. Woodman, the burden of proof is on Obama just as it is on the young person going out for a little league team. Only, far more important. Obama’s pattern of lies and deceit and keeping his records hidden has heightened the need for scrutiny. We have plenty of proof that Obama is ineligible and none that he is.
John Woodman gets to the bottom line.
Page 206
“I have heard people ask, “Well, if the birth certificate isn’t a fake, then why is it that not one single expert has come forward to state that it’s authentic?”
“In my personal view, a good expert should not attempt to state authoritively that a document “is authentic” without – at a minimum – full access to the original document; and in this case, the record-keeping systems.
This is something we do not have.
Since we don’t have such access, then, we are limited to forming an opinion, based on the evidence we do have.
This includes our detailed, point-by-point analysis, and it includes the relevant statements from the Hawaii Department of Health testifying as to the documents authenticity. On these things we must base our conclusions.”
Access to an original birth certificate proving Hawaiian birth has not been provided. “Relevant” statements from Hawaii officials have been hard to come by. Most of this has been manipulated by the media.
Page 216
“On the other hand, disproving the various claims of fraud cannot prove that the birth certificate is genuine.
You may recall that at the beginning of this book, I stated that a birth certificate might pass every single test we could throw at it, and still be a forgery.”
Aside from any “expert opinion” we have these facts to rely on:
Tim Adams, who is documented to have worked in the Honolulu elections office in 2008 and who signed an affidavit stating that there was no birth certificate for Obama in 2008 and that it was common knowledge. Sounds like a conspiracy to me.
Governor Neil Abercrombie stated that he could find no birth certificate for Obama, only a record of birth.
The WhiteHouse.gov image has the following certification:
“I certify this is a true copy or abstract of the record on file in the Hawaii State Department of health.”
The image could easily be an abstract, a collection of data permitted by Hawaii law in 1961 and today.
Conclusion:
Regardless of whether or not the image placed on WhiteHouse.gov is a fraud from the standpoint of being altered is irrelevant. The practices of Obama and his cohorts are fraudulent. He has provided absolutely no proof of Hawaiian birth. This does not supercede or diminish the other aspect of his non eligibility. He is still not eligible as a Natural Born Citizen simply because both parents were not US Citizens.
Mr. Woodman, I welcome your response and if I have misrepresented you or erred factually, please inform. But I challenge you to get out of messenger shooting mode and direct your energies toward holding Obama accountable. Your talents are welcome in that endeavor.
Wells
*** Update September 2, 2011, 7:30 PM   ***
This comment was so well written it is worthy of being an addendum.
From commenter Pete:
“Citizen Wells,
No expert can verify an internet document as legitimate, but you can declare it a fraud. Hawaiian law states that public display of private records removes the Hawaiian obligation to protect them. Simply put, if Obama displays his Birth Certificate copy on the internet or on a Federal Government website, he has no right to privacy.
Here are undisputed facts:
1. The Federal Government, via the Executive Branch, has published a Document they claim is Obama’s Hawaiian BC. Not disputed.
2. There is no legal chain of Custody for the document published by the White House.
3. The DoH (Department of Health) in Hawaii REFUSED a legal subpeona to review the Document by experts in person after pre-arrangements had been made.
Obviously the Hawaian DoH has acted appropriately in this case because the information on the White House site does not match DoH records. Specifically, they are obligated to continue to protect the privacy of Obama since his actual records have not been released and seen by the public, or contain information confirming late birth registration.
Further, Judge Lambert’s recent ruling, in contrary to other national judges and Obama senate campaign (the Ryan Divorce documents) has declared that a politician has the right to privacy. That privacy must be given for certain vital records per national law, but that privacy is null and void if the individual make them public (puts on internet).
I don’t think it could be more clear that Obama has privacy laws protecting him as he has NOT released a legitimate copy of his COLB or long form Birth Certificate. What the public has seen is not what is in the record, or he wouldn’t be protected.
As Sherlock Holmes once said “When you have eliminated the impossible, whatever remains, however improbable, must be the truth”.”
 

→ 111 Comments

Posted in Attorneys, Barack Obama, Birth Certificate, Books, Citizen News, Citizens for the truth about Obama, CitizenWells, constitution, Eligibility, Hawaii, Health Department, Natural born citizen, News, Obama, Obama lies, Obama Nation, Obama records, Orwellian, The Case Against Barack Obama, US Constitution, Washington DC, white house 

Tagged Another messenger shooter, Citizen Wells analysis and review, John Woodman book "Is Barack Obama's Birth Certificate a Fraud?", Woodman's motivation 



Alaska Tsunami warning,  7.1 magnitude earthquake Aleutian Islands, Friday September 2, 2011

Posted on September 2, 2011 by citizenwells| 89 Comments


Alaska Tsunami warning,  7.1 magnitude earthquake Aleutian Islands, Friday September 2, 2011
From Reuters September 2, 2011.
“A 7.1 magnitude earthquake struck on Friday in the Aleutian Islands off Alaska, the U.S. Geological Survey reported, prompting a tsunami warning for a portion of Alaska’s coast.
The warning was posted for coastal areas from Unimak Pass, 80 miles northeast of Dutch Harbor, to Amchitka Pass, 125 miles west of Adak.
The Pacific Tsunami Warning Center said it did not see a threat of a widespread destructive tsunami from the quake, which was centered in the Pacific Ocean, 107 miles southeast of Atka, Alaska.
The quake, which struck at 6:55 a.m. EDT, was 22.1 miles deep, the USGS said.”
 
 

→ 89 Comments

Posted in Natural disasters, News 

Tagged 2011, 7.1 magnitude earthquake Aleutian Islands, Alaska Tsunami warning, Friday September 2 



Rick Perry leads Obama, Rasmussen Poll, September 1, 2011, 44 percent to 41 percent

Posted on September 1, 2011 by citizenwells| 225 Comments


Rick Perry leads Obama, Rasmussen Poll, September 1, 2011, 44 percent to 41 percent
From Rasmussen September 1, 2011.
“Perry 44% Obama 41%; President Leads Other GOP Hopefuls”
“For the first time this year, Texas Governor Rick Perry leads President Obama in a national Election 2012 survey. Other Republican candidates trail the president by single digits.
A new Rasmussen Reports national telephone survey shows Perry picking up 44% of the vote while the president earns support from 41%. Given the margin of sampling error (+/- 3 percentage points) and the fact that the election is more than a year away, the race between the two men is effectively a toss-up. Just over a week ago, the president held a three-point advantage over Perry. (To see question wording, click here.)
Perry leads by nine among men but trails by five among women. Among voters under 30, the president leads while Perry has the edge among those over 30. The president leads Perry by 16 percentage points among union members while Perry leads among those who do not belong to a union.
Former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney currently trails the president by four percentage points, 43% to 39%. That’s a slight improvement for the Republican compared to a week ago. Earlier in the year, Romney held a one-point edge when matched against the president. Prior to today’s release, that was the only time a named Republican has held any kind of lead over President Obama. A Generic Republican currently leads the president 48% to 40%.
If Congresswoman Michele Bachmann is the GOP candidate, the president leads 46% to 38%. Unlike Perry and Romney, Bachmann’s numbers are a bit weaker now than they were a week ago.
Finally, if the Republicans were to nominate businessman Herman Cain, President Obama would attract 42% of the vote to Cain’s 35%. (Want a free daily e-mail update? If it’s in the news, it’s in our polls). Rasmussen Reports updates are also available on Twitter or Facebook.
The match-up surveys of 1,000 Likely Voters were conducted August 23-30, 2011 by Rasmussen Reports. The margin of sampling error for the surveys is +/- 3% with a 95% level of confidence.  Field work for all Rasmussen Reports surveys is conducted by Pulse Opinion Research, LLC. See methodology.”
Read more:
http://www.rasmussenreports.com/public_content/politics/elections/election_2012/election_2012_presidential_election/perry_44_obama_41_president_leads_other_gop_hopefuls
 

→ 225 Comments

Posted in Barack Obama, Election 2012, Election update, Obama, Obama administration, Obama lies, Obama Nation, Obama records, Primary polls, Rick Perry, Washington DC, white house 

Tagged 2011, 44 percent to 41 percent, Rasmussen poll, Rick Perry leads Obama, September 1 



Virginia earthquakes continue September 1, 2011, 3.4 magnitude follows lesser quakes yesterday

Posted on September 1, 2011 by citizenwells| 1 Comment


Virginia earthquakes continue September 1, 2011, 3.4 magnitude follows lesser quakes yesterday
“A 3.4 magnitude earthquake struck central Virginia at 5:09 AM this morning, September 1, 2011. Yesterday several 2 plus magnitude quakes struck the same area.”
Magnitude 3.4 – VIRGINIA
2011 September 01 09:09:37 UTC
Earthquake Details

This event has been reviewed by a seismologist.




Magnitude
3.4


Date-Time


Thursday, September 01, 2011 at 09:09:37 UTC
Thursday, September 01, 2011 at 05:09:37 AM at epicenter
Time of Earthquake in other Time Zones




Location
37.958°N, 77.882°W


Depth
4.9 km (3.0 miles)


Region
VIRGINIA


Distances
50 km (31 miles) SW of Fredericksburg, Virginia
52 km (32 miles) E of Charlottesville, Virginia
58 km (36 miles) NW of RICHMOND, Virginia
85 km (52 miles) NNE of Farmville, Virginia


Location Uncertainty
horizontal +/- 14.9 km (9.3 miles); depth +/- 3.1 km (1.9 miles)


Parameters
NST= 46, Nph= 51, Dmin=2.2 km, Rmss=0.92 sec, Gp= 83°,
M-type=”Nuttli” surface wave magnitude (mbLg), Version=6


Source


Magnitude: USGS NEIC (WDCS-D)
Location: USGS NEIC (WDCS-D)




Event ID
usc0005mrm



http://earthquake.usgs.gov/earthquakes/recenteqsww/Quakes/usc0005mrm.php
 

→ 1 Comment

Posted in Natural disasters, News, Virginia 

Tagged 2011, 3.4 magnitude follows lesser quakes yesterday, Virginia earthquakes continue September 1 



Tony Rezko status hearing scheduled September 7, 2011, Judge Amy J. St. Eve

Posted on August 31, 2011 by citizenwells| 147 Comments


Tony Rezko status hearing scheduled September 7, 2011, Judge Amy J. St. Eve   
A status hearing is scheduled for next Wednesday,   September 7, 2011, for Tony Rezko with  Judge Amy J. St. Eve .
     
Daily Calendar
 




Wednesday, September 7, 2011
(As of 08/31/11 at 06:47:51 AM




Honorable Amy J. St. Eve                    Courtroom 1241 (ASE)
1:05-cr-00691   USA v. Rezko                           09:00   Status Hearing             
http://www.ilnd.uscourts.gov/home/DailyCal/7.htm
 

→ 147 Comments

Posted in Chicago, Chicago machine, Citizen News, Citizens for the truth about Obama, CitizenWells, corruption, Illinois, Judges, News, Obama, Obama thugs, Patrick Fitzgerald, Pay to play politics, Rezko, The Case Against Barack Obama, Tony Rezko, US Department of Justice 

Tagged 2011, Judge Amy J. St. Eve, Tony Rezko status hearing scheduled September 7 



John Woodman book, Is Barack Obama’s Birth Certificate a Fraud?,  Computer guy, Market Watch article, Citizen Wells emails Woodman

Posted on August 30, 2011 by citizenwells| 30 Comments


John Woodman book, Is Barack Obama’s Birth Certificate a Fraud?,  Computer guy, Market Watch article, Citizen Wells emails Woodman
“Why has Obama, since taking the White House, used Justice Department Attorneys, at taxpayer expense,  to avoid presenting a legitimate birth certificate and college records?”…Citizen Wells and millions of concerned Americans
I posted the following article at Citizen News this afternoon.
“From Market Watch Aug. 30, 2011.
“‘Tea-Party Conservative’ Refutes Claims of Obama Birth Certificate Forgery”
SPRINGFIELD, Mo., Aug. 30, 2011 /PRNewswire via COMTEX/ — New book details 3-month investigation that found “no credible evidence” of fraud
“As Tea Partiers flock to hear Sarah Palin speak in Iowa this Saturday, one conservative who identifies with the movement is busy shredding the “expert claims” that President Barack Obama’s birth certificate is forged.
And John Woodman insists that what might be seen by some as odd behavior for a conservative is, in fact, completely in harmony with the Tea Party’s “Restoring America” theme.
“I didn’t set out to disprove the forgery claims,” he says. “I set out to discover the truth. And truth, even when some may find it inconvenient, is definitely one of the values we need to preserve and restore in our society.”
In this case, unraveling the truth took Woodman, a computer professional with 20 years’ experience, a full 3 months of careful investigation. He meticulously researched more than 30 different claims of evidence that Mr. Obama’s birth certificate is forged – and ended up dismissing them all.
“There are certainly a lot of odd and interesting things about the birth certificate,” he says. “But in spite of what you’ve heard, not one of them amounts to credible evidence that it’s a fraud.”
A related survey by Mr. Woodman suggests at least two-thirds of Americans have heard the rumors that President Obama’s birth certificate – publicly released by the White House in the form of a computer PDF file – is an obvious and proven forgery. And those claims have been backed up by an entire panel of experts showcased by conservative website WorldNetDaily. But Woodman says that all of “their experts” are wrong – and that his detailed analysis proves it.
The full story of the investigation is being released nationwide today in a 221-page book titled Is Barack Obama’s Birth Certificate a Fraud? A Computer Guy Examines the Evidence for Forgery. The book, with more than 70 illustrations, is available through Amazon and other major outlets, in both paperback and e-book formats.
Woodman says his investigation also reveals mysteries about the birth certificate not talked about anywhere else: “In about 20 different instances, I’ve presented information that is either entirely new, or very little known until now.”
But is he worried that WorldNetDaily’s panel of experts will be able to counter his analysis?
“I’m always willing to be proven wrong. But I’d say they’re the ones who are now going to have to backtrack,” he replies. “So it will be interesting to see what happens from here.”
Read more:
http://www.marketwatch.com/story/tea-party-conservative-refutes-claims-of-obama-birth-certificate-forgery-2011-08-30
http://www.obamabirthbook.com/
I have over 30 years experience in IT including OCR and a strong technical background. I sent John Woodman the following email a few minutes ago:
“Hi John.
I do not know you & I do not know what your motives are.
However, before I potentially “let you have it,”
how do you account for the following:
1. No chain of document.
2. I assume you have not seen the original.
3. It is clearly not a photostatic copy of an original HI long form
birth certificate.
There is plenty more.
Do you wish to respond before I put an article up?
Or debate?
Let me know.
Thanks.”
I will keep you posted.”
http://citizenwells.com/2011/08/30/is-barack-obamas-birth-certificate-a-fraud-john-woodman-computer-guy-market-watch-article-tea-partiers-sarah-palin-iowa-speech/
I have engaged in a rather extensive email exchange with John Woodman since posting that article. I will be evaluating what he has written and responding soon. Mr. Woodman has welcomed my scrutiny of his research.
 

→ 30 Comments

Posted in Attorneys, Barack Obama, Birth Certificate, Books, Citizen News, Citizens for the truth about Obama, CitizenWells, constitution, Eligibility, Hawaii, Lawyers, Natural born citizen, News, Obama, Obama lies, Obama Nation, Obama records, The Case Against Barack Obama, United States, US Constitution, Washington DC, white house 

Tagged Citizen Wells emails Woodman, Computer guy, Is Barack Obama’s Birth Certificate a Fraud?, John Woodman book, Market Watch article 



Dick Cheney outs Colin Powell, Powell agenda must be scrutinized, Cheney book sheds light on Powell and Patrick Fitzgerald, Libby and Rove victims

Posted on August 30, 2011 by citizenwells| 49 Comments


Dick Cheney outs Colin Powell, Powell agenda must be scrutinized, Cheney book sheds light on Powell and Patrick Fitzgerald, Libby and Rove victims
“These are the times that try men’s souls. The summer soldier and the sunshine patriot will, in this crisis, shrink from the service of their country; but he that stands now, deserves the love and thanks of man and woman. Tyranny, like hell, is not easily conquered; yet we have this consolation with us, that the harder the conflict, the more glorious the triumph.”…Thomas Paine
Citizen Wells readers, fellow Americans, we have a three for one, a trifecta, in this article. While the focus of the article is on Colin Powell, the real Colin Powell, whose agenda now must be scrutinized, Patrick Fitzgerald and the Chicago Tribune will be exposed for their agenda. But first, Powell.
Dick Cheney has a new book out, “In My Time: A Personal and Political Memoir.”  Cheney was interviewed by Rush Limbaugh today. During the interview Cheney explained that Colin Powell knew that Richard Armitage was the source of the Valerie Plame leak and allowed Scooter Libby and Karl Rove to be investigated. Cheney also mentioned our good friend Patrick Fitzgerald, who was recently praised by the Chicago Tribune for being apolitical. More on that later.
From the Washington Post August 29, 2011.
“Colin Powell’s cheap shot”
“On “Face the Nation” yesterday, former secretary of state Colin Powell accused former vice president Dick Cheney of taking “cheap shots” in his about-to-be released memoirs. However, in taking on Cheney’s account of the Valerie Plame matter, Powell is the one who misleads and distorts.
Powell had this to say in response to Cheney’s book, which lays blame on Powell’s deputy Richard Armitage as the real leaker who revealed Plame’s identity as a CIA employee, setting off the appointment of a special prosecutor and the eventual conviction of Scooter Libby. Powell says this:
Then he goes on to talk about the Valerie Plame affair, and tries to lay it all off on Mister Rich Armitage in the State Department and me. But the fact of the matter is when Mister Armitage realized that he was the source for Bob Novak’s column that caused all the difficulty and he called me immediately, two days after the President launched the investigation and what we did was we called the Justice Department. They sent it over the FBI. The FBI had all the information that Mister Armitage’s participation in this immediately. And we called Al Gonzalez, the President’s counsel, and told him that we had information. The FBI asked us not to share any of this with anyone else, as did Mister Gonzalez. And so, if the White House operatives had come forward as readily as Mister Armitage had done, then we wouldn’t have gone on for two more months with the FBI trying to find out what happened in the White House.
There wouldn’t have been special counsel appointed by the Justice Department who spent two years trying to get to the bottom of it. And we wouldn’t have the mess that we subsequently had. And so if the White House and the operatives in the White House and Mister Cheney’s staff and elsewhere in the White House had been as forthcoming with the FBI as Mister Armitage was, this problem would not have reached the dimensions that it reached.
Let’s count the ways in which this is inaccurate or misleading. To begin with, Powell leaves out the critical fact: He and Armitage never told the president what Armitage had done. Instead, they sat silent as the investigation played out and others, including Karl Rove and Libby, were ensnared in an investigation for a crime that, if committed at all, was one for which Armitage should rightly have been prosecuted. Powell on Sunday slyly said they informed the attorney general that they “had information.” But they most definitely did not tell him, the president or the country that the leaker was Armitage.
The best account of this comes from Michael Isikoff, hardly a Cheney or Libby apologist. In his book, he explained what unfolded after Armitage told Powell about his role in the leak:
The next day, a team of FBI agents and Justice prosecutors investigating the leak questioned the deputy secretary. Armitage acknowledged that he had passed along to Novak information contained in a classified State Department memo: that [ Joe] Wilson’s wife worked on weapons-of-mass-destruction issues at the CIA… [William Howard Taft IV, the State Department’s legal adviser] felt obligated to inform White House counsel Alberto Gonzales. But Powell and his aides feared the White House would then leak that Armitage had been Novak’s source — possibly to embarrass State Department officials who had been unenthusiastic about Bush’s Iraq policy. So Taft told Gonzales the bare minimum: that the State Department had passed some information about the case to Justice. He didn’t mention Armitage. Taft asked if Gonzales wanted to know the details. The president’s lawyer, playing the case by the book, said no, and Taft told him nothing more. Armitage’s role thus remained that rarest of Washington phenomena: a hot secret that never leaked. [Emphasis added.]
Notice that in Isikoff’s account the FBI never told Armitage and Powell to keep quiet. No, the secrecy was their idea. Moreover, Powell states that White House aides were not “forthcoming.” We know, of course, this is false. Numerous aides were dragged into FBI interview and grand jury rooms, required to pay for counsel and, in the case of Libby, prosecuted and convicted while the actual leaker’s identity remained secret. Talk about cheap shots.
Recall how all of this played out. Armitage and Powell allowed the entire country and troops in the field to believe a lie, namely that the White House had “outed” Plame. This, aside from the galling display of moral cowardice, also put the president’s reelection in jeopardy since Democrats were all too intent on making this into a huge scandal.
The extent of the dishonesty is quite stunning. In a Cabinet meeting on October 7, 2003, the White House press corps bombarded President George W. Bush with questions about who the leaker was. Bush said he didn’t know, but there would be an investigation to get to the bottom of it. Powell, who had been told by Armitage just days earlier that Armitage was the leaker, sat there next to the president, stone silent. Not very loyal or honest, was it?
Moreover, the notion that Armitage’s slip was somehow inadvertent is belied by Bob Woodward’s taped interview in which Armitage repeatedly mentions Joe Wilson’s wife, evidently doing his best to get Plame’s identity out there. This was no slip of the tongue. Woodward testified that when he spoke to Libby sometime later that Libby never said anything about Plame.
At issue here is not simply Powell and Armitage’s deception and undermining of their commander in chief. There was a victim, one whom neither Powell or Armitage has ever apologized to. The person who ultimately paid the price for this was Scooter Libby. Had the president and the country known about Armitage, a special prosecutor would never have been appointed. Libby was eventually convicted on the basis of a he-said-he-said dispute between his recollection and that of the late Tim Russert. (Charges concerning Libby’s alleged comments to Judy Miller were dismissed, and he was acquitted on the count involving Matt Cooper.) A compelling case for Libby’s innocence can be found in this account by Stan Crock.
Powell may be peeved at being fingered by Cheney. But on this one Cheney has him dead to rights. The Plame is a blot on his record and that of Armitage.
Maybe it is time to own up and make amends rather than bristling at Libby’s former boss.”
Read more:
http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/right-turn/post/colin-powells-cheap-shot/2011/03/29/gIQA2Q0smJ_blog.html?wprss=right-turn
From Citizen Wells August 15, 2011.
“On August 8, 2011, the Birther Summit issued a challenge to General Powell  based on the following:
“It was reported in May of this year that you told South Carolina State University’s 400 graduates that you particularly enjoyed a recent event: “. . . when President Obama took out his birth certificate and blew away Donald Trump and all the birthers!””
Despite the fact that you have been informed that the image placed on WhiteHouse.gov was fraudulent, you have failed to respond to the challenge. I have no other recourse than to call you a traitor and coward. I will say this to your face unless you respond according to your oath.”
Read more:
http://citizenwells.wordpress.com/2011/08/15/colin-powell-traitor-general-powell-ignorant-or-biased-obama-birth-certificate-eligibility-colin-powell-ignores-oath/
It seems that there is much about Colin Powell that we did not know.  Perhaps we will learn more.
 

→ 49 Comments

Posted in Barack Obama, Birth Certificate, Citizen News, Citizens for the truth about Obama, CitizenWells, Colin Powell, DC, FBI, George W Bush, Military officers, News, Obama, Patrick Fitzgerald, Patriotism, Politics, Smear campaigns, US Department of Justice, Washington DC, white house 

Tagged Cheney book sheds light on Powell and Patrick Fitzgerald, Dick Cheney outs Colin Powell, Libby and Rove victims, Powell agenda must be scrutinized 



← Older posts






 Citizen News Mobile

 Citizen News MobileBrian Williams most influential anchor, Williams NBC in bed with Obama administration, Wenzel Strategies poll August 29, 2011Unemployment claims rise August 25, 2011, US Labor Dept., Increase of 5,000 from previous week August 25, 2011
Search for:



 

  Recent Articles 
Neil Abercrombie Obama birth certificate facts, Abercrombie found no birth certificate, Exists in the archives written down
Colin Powell Obama coverup, General Powell NPR comments edited, Natural Born Citizen not citizen is the requirement
Patrick Fitzgerald apolitical?, Fitzgerald attacked Republicans protected Obama, Chicago Tribune protecting Obama?
John Woodman book “Is Barack Obama’s Birth Certificate a Fraud?”, Citizen Wells analysis and review, Another messenger shooter, Woodman’s motivation
Alaska Tsunami warning,  7.1 magnitude earthquake Aleutian Islands, Friday September 2, 2011

  Recent comments Free Speech on Neil Abercrombie Obama birth c…Free Speech on Neil Abercrombie Obama birth c…Jonah on Neil Abercrombie Obama birth c…Free Speech on Patrick Fitzgerald apolitical?…Free Speech on Neil Abercrombie Obama birth c…
 Citizen News ArticlesRasmussen Poll September 1, 2011, Rick Perry leads Obama 44 percent to 41 percentWarren Buffett Berkshire Hathaway 1 billion in back taxes, Back taxes to 2002, Buffett Obama buddy, Mega rich friends should pay higher taxesIs Barack Obama’s Birth Certificate a Fraud?, John Woodman, Computer guy, Market Watch article, Tea Partiers Sarah Palin Iowa speechHurricane Irene Vermont flooding worst in hundred years, Southern Vermont, Wilmington, Dover, Brattleboro, Bennington, RutlandHurricane Irene Raleigh NC power outages, Progress Energy, Duke EnergyCategories
Select Category
1918 flu pandemic
1984
2009 flu pandemic
2009 Stimulus Bill
9/11
AARP
ABC news
Abortion
Abraham Lincoln
Accountability
Acorn
Acorn voter fraud
Afghanistan
African Press
AGI
Ahmadinejad
Airport security
Al Gore
Al Qaeda
al-Qaida
Alan Colmes
Alan Keyes
Alexi Giannoulias
Ali Ata
Alinsky
AMA
amended complaint
America
American flag
American hero
American Revolution
Americans
Amish
Amnesty
Andy Martin
Anita Dunn
Ann Dunham
Annenberg
Annenberg Challenge
Announcements
Anti Semitism
AOL poll
API tapes
Arabs
Arizona
Associated press
Attorney General
Attorneys
Auchi
Avian flu
Bailout
Banks
Barack Obama
Barney Frank
Barry Soetoro
Ben Nelson
Berg
Biden Palin debate
Biden real estate
Big Brother
Bill Clinton
Bill O'Reilly
Bill of Rights
Bill Richardson
Birth Certificate
Birthers
Bishop Ron McRae
Blagojevich
Blagojevich Impeachment
Blagojevich trial
Blog Talk Radio
blogtalkradio.com/larry-sinclair
Board of Education
Board of Elections
Bob Barr
Book reviews
Books
Bribery
Bribes
British
Broe V Reed
Budget
Bush
California
Canada
Cap and trade
Cap anf trade
Cape Fear Community College
Capitol Building
Catholics
CBC
CBS
CDC
Census
Chairman Mao
character
Charlotte
Charlotte Observer
Chicago
Chicago machine
Chicago SunTimes
Chicago Tribune
Chief Justice
China
Christian
Christianity
Christmas
Christopher Kelly
CIA
Circuit Court
Citizen
Citizen Journalism
Citizen News
Citizens for the truth about Obama
CitizenWells
Civil Complaint
Civil rights
Clean Air Act
Clintons
CNN
CO2
Coal
cocaine
COLB
Colin Powell
Colonel Hollister
Columbia University
Commander in Chief
Communist party
Communists
Community Organizer
Congress
Congress Watch
Congresswoman
Connecticut
conservatives
constitution
Constitution Hall of Shame
Copywrite
Corporate accountability
corruption
Corsi interview
Cort Wrotnowski
Court martial
Court of Appeals
Courts
CPUSA
Crime
Criminal Complaint
Cspan
Cuba
Culture
Czars
Dan Parisi
Dan Shomon
David Axelrod
David Freddoso
DC
DC Warrant
Death certificate
Deaths
Debate
Declaration of Independence
Defense
Deficit
Delaware
Delegate
Democrat delegate
democratic convention
Democratic Disaster
Democratic Socialists of America
Democrats
District Court
Divorce Decree
DNC
Doctors
Dollar
Domain Names
Donald Sullivan
Donald Young
Donna Brazile
doublespeak
down low
Dr. Orly Taitz
Dr. Robert Weinstein
drugs
Duty
Earth
Economy
Education
Elderly
Election
Election 2008
Election 2009
Election 2010
Election 2012
Election Boards
Election Law
Election update
Electoral College
Electors
Eligibility
Elitism
Elitist remarks
Emergency
Emil Jones
Employment
Enemy combatant
Energy
EPA
Eric Holder
factcheck.org
Fairness Doctrine
Faith
Family
Fannie Mae
Fazul Abdullah Mohammed
FBI
FCC
FEC
Federal Court
Federal Reserve
FEMA
Fidel Castro
Final solution
Financial crisis
First Amendment
Florida
Flu
foreign press
Fossil fuels
Founding Fathers
Fox news
France
Franklin Raines
fraud
Freddie Mac
FTC
Generals
George Orwell
George W Bush
Gitmo
Glenn Beck
global warming
Globe Magazine
God
Google
Google video
Government
Grand Juror
Grand Jury
Grand Jury Indictment
Grants
Grassroots
Greenhouse gases
Greta Van Susteren
Guantanamo
Gwen Ifill
H1N1 virus
Habeas Corpus
Hannity and Colmes
Hanoi
Harold Ickes
Harry Reid
Harvard
Hate crimes
Hawaii
Health Care for America now
Health Department
Health Insurance
Healthcare bill
High Crimes and Misdemeanors
Hillary Clinton
History
Hitler
Hitler Youth
Hollister lawsuit
Hollywood
Holocaust
Hopium
Hospitals
Hustler
Idiot
illegal aliens
Illegal immigrants
Illinois
Illinois bar
Immigrants
Impeach Senator Obama
impeachment
Inauguration
Independents
indictment
Indonesia
influenza
Insanity
Inspector General
Internet
Internet attacks
Internet billboard
Internet scrubbing
Internet TV
Iran
Iraq War
Islam
Israel
Jagir P Multani
James Manning
Jeff Katz
Jeff Rense
Jeff Schreiber
Jeremiah Wright
Jerome Corsi
Jesse Jackson
Jesus
Jobs
Joe Biden
Joe Lieberman
Joe the Plumber
Joe Wilson
John Adams
John Bingham
John Edwards
John Harris
John Kerry
John McCain
John Roberts
Jon Voight
Joseph Cari
Joseph Mengele
Journalism
Jr
Judges
Judicial misconduct
Jupiter
Jury
Justice
Justice David Souter
JUSTICE SCALIA
Kapi’olani hospital
Kennedy
Kenya
Kerchner v Obama
Keyes lawsuit
Kickbacks
Killerspin
Koran
LA Times
Labor Day
Labor Department
Larry Sinclair
Larry Sinclair blog
Larry Sinclair book
larrysinclair-0926.blogspot.com
Larrysinclair0926
Larrysinclair0926.wordpress.com
larrysinclairbarackobama.com
Law enforcement
Law firms
Lawrence Lessig
Lawsuits
Lawyers
Leftist
Leo Donofrio
Leo Haffey
letter
Liberalism
Lies
Lightfoot v. Bowen
lipstick on a pig
Lobbyist
Logan Act
Lou Dobbs
Louis Farrakhan
Lt Col Donald Sullivan
Lucifer
Madelyn Dunham
Magistrate
Major Cook
Mammogram
Manchurian Candidate
Marbury V Madison
Marilyn Katz
Mario Apuzzo
Martial law
Marxist
Matt Mullenweg
McCain Obama
McCain speech
Medal of Honor
media
Medicare
Medicine
Memorial Day
Mexico
Michele Bachmann
Michelle Malkin
Michelle Obama
Michelle Obama tape
Mike Huckabee
Military officers
Military tribunal
Ministry of Truth
Minnesota
Moammar Ghadafi
Mobile app
Mom
Money
money laundering
Money Markets
Montana
Mortgage crisis
Mother
Motion
Movies
MSM
MSNBC
Mu’ammar Al-Qadhafi
Murder
Muslims
Nancy Pelosi
Nashville
National Enquirer
National Guard
National Press Club
Natural born citizen
Natural disasters
Nayak
Nazi Brownshirts
Nazi Germany
NC
NC primary
NC voters
Nebraska
Nevada
New Jersey
New Mexico
New Party
New World Order
New York
News
Newspapers
No Quarter
North Carolina
NPR
NSA
NWO
NY Post
NY Times
O’Reilly
Oath Keepers
Obama
Obama 2006 Kenya
Obama administration
Obama home for sale
Obama impeachment
Obama indictment
Obama lies
Obama Nation
Obama records
Obama signature
Obama taxes
Obama thugs
ObamaCare
Occidental College
ODM
Offshore Drilling
Ohio voters
Oklahoma
Olympics
Oprah Winfrey
Orwell
Orwell Diaries
Orwellian
Osama Bin Laden
Oxford MS
PA primary
Palin
pandemic
Paramjit Multani
Parker Griffith
passport
Patrick Fitzgerald
Patriotism
Pay to play politics
Peace
Pennsylvania voters
Perjury
Persons
Pharmaceuticals
PHILIP J. BERG
police
Political cartoons
Political prisoner
politicians
Politico
Politics
polls
Polygraphs
Pregnancy
President Bush
Presidential candidate
Presidential debate
Presidential seal
press conference
Primary polls
Pro abortion
Project vote
Prosecution
Qaddafi
Quo Warranto
Quotes
racism
Radicals
Radio
Rahm Emanuel
Railla Odinga
Real estate
Reconciliation
Reform
Religion
Religious freedom
Republican Convention
republicans
Repubx.com
RestoreThe ConstitutionalRepublic.com
restoretheconstitutionalrepublic.org
Reverend Manning
Rezko
Rhino Times
Richard Daley
Richard R Wier
Rick Perry
Rick Warren
Robert Blackwell
Robert Gibbs
Rod Polarik
Roland Burris
Ron Paul
Ron Polarik
Ross Perot
Rudy Giuliani
Rule 9
Rush Limbaugh
Russia
Russians
Saddleback Church
Sarah Obama
Sarah Palin
Scandal
School propaganda
Schools
Science
Scientists
Sean Hannity
Second Amendment
Secret Dervice
Secret Service
Secretary of Defense
Secretary of State
Secretary of the Commonwealth
Secretary of the Treasury
Secretary Paulson
SEIU
Selective Service
Senator Baucus
Senator Biden
Senator McCain
Senator Obama
Seniors
Sex
Sharia law
Shroud of Turin
Smear campaigns
Social security
Socialists
Society
Solar eclipse
Soviets
Speech
St Paul
Standing
Stanley Kurtz
Statesmen
Stephen Pidgeon
Stevens indictment
Stuart Levine
subpoena
Suicide
Sullivan v. NC Secretary of State
Superior Court
Supreme Court
Supreme Court Justice
Swine flu
Talk Radio
TARP
Tax Liens
Taxes
Tea Party
Teleprompter
Television
Tennessee
Terrorist Attacks
Terrorists
Texas Darlin
Texas Primary
The Case Against Barack Obama
The View
TheBlaze
Thomas Paine
Thought Police
Tickets
Tim Russert
Times
Timothy Geithner
Tony Fratto
Tony Rezko
Town Hall
Treason
truth
Truth Fights back
Truthfightsback
TUCC
TV
Twitter.com
U.S. Supreme Court
UFO
UN
Uncategorized
Unemployment
Unions
United Nations
United States
US Air Force
US Army
US Constitution
US Department of Justice
US District Court
US economy
US House of Representatives
US Military
US Navy
US Senate
US Soldier
USA Today
Usurper
Usurperville
VA hospitals
VA lawsuit
Vaccines
Valerie Jarrett
Vermont
Veterans
video
Vietnam War
Virginia
Virus
Visa
Voter fraud
voters
War
Warrant
Washington DC
Washington Post
Washington Times
WBT radio
We the People Foundation
Websites
West Virginia voters
white house
whitehouse.com
WHO
Wikipedia
William Ayers
William Cellini
Wilmington NC
Wilmington Victory Office
Wiretap
Wordpress
Wordpress blog
World Health Organization
World Net Daily
World War II
Writ
YouTube
Zach Jones blog
Zeituni Onyango


Twitter
Neil Abercrombie Obama birth certificate facts, Abercrombie found no birth certificate, Exists in the archives writt… http://t.co/dP1Y1pH 1 hour ago
Colin Powell Obama coverup, General Powell NPR comments edited, Natural Born Citizen not citizen is the requirement http://t.co/I9ey0Rf 6 hours ago
Patrick Fitzgerald apolitical?, Fitzgerald attacked Republicans protected Obama, Chicago Tribune protecting Obama? http://t.co/LYQGLQt 2 days ago
John Woodman book "Is Barack Obama's Birth Certificate a Fraud?", Citizen Wells analysis and review, Another messeng… http://t.co/VnI6XHb 3 days ago
Alaska Tsunami warning,  7.1 magnitude earthquake Aleutian Islands, Friday September 2, 2011 http://t.co/vvNzOaR 3 days ago

RSS FeedRSS - PostsRSS - Comments
Archives 
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
December 2009
November 2009
October 2009
September 2009
August 2009
July 2009
June 2009
May 2009
April 2009
March 2009
February 2009
January 2009
December 2008
November 2008
October 2008
September 2008
August 2008
July 2008
June 2008
May 2008
April 2008
March 2008
February 2008


Search for:



  Last 5 Articles 
Neil Abercrombie Obama birth certificate facts, Abercrombie found no birth certificate, Exists in the archives written down
Colin Powell Obama coverup, General Powell NPR comments edited, Natural Born Citizen not citizen is the requirement
Patrick Fitzgerald apolitical?, Fitzgerald attacked Republicans protected Obama, Chicago Tribune protecting Obama?
John Woodman book “Is Barack Obama’s Birth Certificate a Fraud?”, Citizen Wells analysis and review, Another messenger shooter, Woodman’s motivation
Alaska Tsunami warning,  7.1 magnitude earthquake Aleutian Islands, Friday September 2, 2011

Citizen Wells Twitter
Neil Abercrombie Obama birth certificate facts, Abercrombie found no birth certificate, Exists in the archives writt… http://t.co/dP1Y1pH 1 hour ago
Colin Powell Obama coverup, General Powell NPR comments edited, Natural Born Citizen not citizen is the requirement http://t.co/I9ey0Rf 6 hours ago
Patrick Fitzgerald apolitical?, Fitzgerald attacked Republicans protected Obama, Chicago Tribune protecting Obama? http://t.co/LYQGLQt 2 days ago
John Woodman book "Is Barack Obama's Birth Certificate a Fraud?", Citizen Wells analysis and review, Another messeng… http://t.co/VnI6XHb 3 days ago
Alaska Tsunami warning,  7.1 magnitude earthquake Aleutian Islands, Friday September 2, 2011 http://t.co/vvNzOaR 3 days ago

Articles by category
Select Category
1918 flu pandemic
1984
2009 flu pandemic
2009 Stimulus Bill
9/11
AARP
ABC news
Abortion
Abraham Lincoln
Accountability
Acorn
Acorn voter fraud
Afghanistan
African Press
AGI
Ahmadinejad
Airport security
Al Gore
Al Qaeda
al-Qaida
Alan Colmes
Alan Keyes
Alexi Giannoulias
Ali Ata
Alinsky
AMA
amended complaint
America
American flag
American hero
American Revolution
Americans
Amish
Amnesty
Andy Martin
Anita Dunn
Ann Dunham
Annenberg
Annenberg Challenge
Announcements
Anti Semitism
AOL poll
API tapes
Arabs
Arizona
Associated press
Attorney General
Attorneys
Auchi
Avian flu
Bailout
Banks
Barack Obama
Barney Frank
Barry Soetoro
Ben Nelson
Berg
Biden Palin debate
Biden real estate
Big Brother
Bill Clinton
Bill O'Reilly
Bill of Rights
Bill Richardson
Birth Certificate
Birthers
Bishop Ron McRae
Blagojevich
Blagojevich Impeachment
Blagojevich trial
Blog Talk Radio
blogtalkradio.com/larry-sinclair
Board of Education
Board of Elections
Bob Barr
Book reviews
Books
Bribery
Bribes
British
Broe V Reed
Budget
Bush
California
Canada
Cap and trade
Cap anf trade
Cape Fear Community College
Capitol Building
Catholics
CBC
CBS
CDC
Census
Chairman Mao
character
Charlotte
Charlotte Observer
Chicago
Chicago machine
Chicago SunTimes
Chicago Tribune
Chief Justice
China
Christian
Christianity
Christmas
Christopher Kelly
CIA
Circuit Court
Citizen
Citizen Journalism
Citizen News
Citizens for the truth about Obama
CitizenWells
Civil Complaint
Civil rights
Clean Air Act
Clintons
CNN
CO2
Coal
cocaine
COLB
Colin Powell
Colonel Hollister
Columbia University
Commander in Chief
Communist party
Communists
Community Organizer
Congress
Congress Watch
Congresswoman
Connecticut
conservatives
constitution
Constitution Hall of Shame
Copywrite
Corporate accountability
corruption
Corsi interview
Cort Wrotnowski
Court martial
Court of Appeals
Courts
CPUSA
Crime
Criminal Complaint
Cspan
Cuba
Culture
Czars
Dan Parisi
Dan Shomon
David Axelrod
David Freddoso
DC
DC Warrant
Death certificate
Deaths
Debate
Declaration of Independence
Defense
Deficit
Delaware
Delegate
Democrat delegate
democratic convention
Democratic Disaster
Democratic Socialists of America
Democrats
District Court
Divorce Decree
DNC
Doctors
Dollar
Domain Names
Donald Sullivan
Donald Young
Donna Brazile
doublespeak
down low
Dr. Orly Taitz
Dr. Robert Weinstein
drugs
Duty
Earth
Economy
Education
Elderly
Election
Election 2008
Election 2009
Election 2010
Election 2012
Election Boards
Election Law
Election update
Electoral College
Electors
Eligibility
Elitism
Elitist remarks
Emergency
Emil Jones
Employment
Enemy combatant
Energy
EPA
Eric Holder
factcheck.org
Fairness Doctrine
Faith
Family
Fannie Mae
Fazul Abdullah Mohammed
FBI
FCC
FEC
Federal Court
Federal Reserve
FEMA
Fidel Castro
Final solution
Financial crisis
First Amendment
Florida
Flu
foreign press
Fossil fuels
Founding Fathers
Fox news
France
Franklin Raines
fraud
Freddie Mac
FTC
Generals
George Orwell
George W Bush
Gitmo
Glenn Beck
global warming
Globe Magazine
God
Google
Google video
Government
Grand Juror
Grand Jury
Grand Jury Indictment
Grants
Grassroots
Greenhouse gases
Greta Van Susteren
Guantanamo
Gwen Ifill
H1N1 virus
Habeas Corpus
Hannity and Colmes
Hanoi
Harold Ickes
Harry Reid
Harvard
Hate crimes
Hawaii
Health Care for America now
Health Department
Health Insurance
Healthcare bill
High Crimes and Misdemeanors
Hillary Clinton
History
Hitler
Hitler Youth
Hollister lawsuit
Hollywood
Holocaust
Hopium
Hospitals
Hustler
Idiot
illegal aliens
Illegal immigrants
Illinois
Illinois bar
Immigrants
Impeach Senator Obama
impeachment
Inauguration
Independents
indictment
Indonesia
influenza
Insanity
Inspector General
Internet
Internet attacks
Internet billboard
Internet scrubbing
Internet TV
Iran
Iraq War
Islam
Israel
Jagir P Multani
James Manning
Jeff Katz
Jeff Rense
Jeff Schreiber
Jeremiah Wright
Jerome Corsi
Jesse Jackson
Jesus
Jobs
Joe Biden
Joe Lieberman
Joe the Plumber
Joe Wilson
John Adams
John Bingham
John Edwards
John Harris
John Kerry
John McCain
John Roberts
Jon Voight
Joseph Cari
Joseph Mengele
Journalism
Jr
Judges
Judicial misconduct
Jupiter
Jury
Justice
Justice David Souter
JUSTICE SCALIA
Kapi’olani hospital
Kennedy
Kenya
Kerchner v Obama
Keyes lawsuit
Kickbacks
Killerspin
Koran
LA Times
Labor Day
Labor Department
Larry Sinclair
Larry Sinclair blog
Larry Sinclair book
larrysinclair-0926.blogspot.com
Larrysinclair0926
Larrysinclair0926.wordpress.com
larrysinclairbarackobama.com
Law enforcement
Law firms
Lawrence Lessig
Lawsuits
Lawyers
Leftist
Leo Donofrio
Leo Haffey
letter
Liberalism
Lies
Lightfoot v. Bowen
lipstick on a pig
Lobbyist
Logan Act
Lou Dobbs
Louis Farrakhan
Lt Col Donald Sullivan
Lucifer
Madelyn Dunham
Magistrate
Major Cook
Mammogram
Manchurian Candidate
Marbury V Madison
Marilyn Katz
Mario Apuzzo
Martial law
Marxist
Matt Mullenweg
McCain Obama
McCain speech
Medal of Honor
media
Medicare
Medicine
Memorial Day
Mexico
Michele Bachmann
Michelle Malkin
Michelle Obama
Michelle Obama tape
Mike Huckabee
Military officers
Military tribunal
Ministry of Truth
Minnesota
Moammar Ghadafi
Mobile app
Mom
Money
money laundering
Money Markets
Montana
Mortgage crisis
Mother
Motion
Movies
MSM
MSNBC
Mu’ammar Al-Qadhafi
Murder
Muslims
Nancy Pelosi
Nashville
National Enquirer
National Guard
National Press Club
Natural born citizen
Natural disasters
Nayak
Nazi Brownshirts
Nazi Germany
NC
NC primary
NC voters
Nebraska
Nevada
New Jersey
New Mexico
New Party
New World Order
New York
News
Newspapers
No Quarter
North Carolina
NPR
NSA
NWO
NY Post
NY Times
O’Reilly
Oath Keepers
Obama
Obama 2006 Kenya
Obama administration
Obama home for sale
Obama impeachment
Obama indictment
Obama lies
Obama Nation
Obama records
Obama signature
Obama taxes
Obama thugs
ObamaCare
Occidental College
ODM
Offshore Drilling
Ohio voters
Oklahoma
Olympics
Oprah Winfrey
Orwell
Orwell Diaries
Orwellian
Osama Bin Laden
Oxford MS
PA primary
Palin
pandemic
Paramjit Multani
Parker Griffith
passport
Patrick Fitzgerald
Patriotism
Pay to play politics
Peace
Pennsylvania voters
Perjury
Persons
Pharmaceuticals
PHILIP J. BERG
police
Political cartoons
Political prisoner
politicians
Politico
Politics
polls
Polygraphs
Pregnancy
President Bush
Presidential candidate
Presidential debate
Presidential seal
press conference
Primary polls
Pro abortion
Project vote
Prosecution
Qaddafi
Quo Warranto
Quotes
racism
Radicals
Radio
Rahm Emanuel
Railla Odinga
Real estate
Reconciliation
Reform
Religion
Religious freedom
Republican Convention
republicans
Repubx.com
RestoreThe ConstitutionalRepublic.com
restoretheconstitutionalrepublic.org
Reverend Manning
Rezko
Rhino Times
Richard Daley
Richard R Wier
Rick Perry
Rick Warren
Robert Blackwell
Robert Gibbs
Rod Polarik
Roland Burris
Ron Paul
Ron Polarik
Ross Perot
Rudy Giuliani
Rule 9
Rush Limbaugh
Russia
Russians
Saddleback Church
Sarah Obama
Sarah Palin
Scandal
School propaganda
Schools
Science
Scientists
Sean Hannity
Second Amendment
Secret Dervice
Secret Service
Secretary of Defense
Secretary of State
Secretary of the Commonwealth
Secretary of the Treasury
Secretary Paulson
SEIU
Selective Service
Senator Baucus
Senator Biden
Senator McCain
Senator Obama
Seniors
Sex
Sharia law
Shroud of Turin
Smear campaigns
Social security
Socialists
Society
Solar eclipse
Soviets
Speech
St Paul
Standing
Stanley Kurtz
Statesmen
Stephen Pidgeon
Stevens indictment
Stuart Levine
subpoena
Suicide
Sullivan v. NC Secretary of State
Superior Court
Supreme Court
Supreme Court Justice
Swine flu
Talk Radio
TARP
Tax Liens
Taxes
Tea Party
Teleprompter
Television
Tennessee
Terrorist Attacks
Terrorists
Texas Darlin
Texas Primary
The Case Against Barack Obama
The View
TheBlaze
Thomas Paine
Thought Police
Tickets
Tim Russert
Times
Timothy Geithner
Tony Fratto
Tony Rezko
Town Hall
Treason
truth
Truth Fights back
Truthfightsback
TUCC
TV
Twitter.com
U.S. Supreme Court
UFO
UN
Uncategorized
Unemployment
Unions
United Nations
United States
US Air Force
US Army
US Constitution
US Department of Justice
US District Court
US economy
US House of Representatives
US Military
US Navy
US Senate
US Soldier
USA Today
Usurper
Usurperville
VA hospitals
VA lawsuit
Vaccines
Valerie Jarrett
Vermont
Veterans
video
Vietnam War
Virginia
Virus
Visa
Voter fraud
voters
War
Warrant
Washington DC
Washington Post
Washington Times
WBT radio
We the People Foundation
Websites
West Virginia voters
white house
whitehouse.com
WHO
Wikipedia
William Ayers
William Cellini
Wilmington NC
Wilmington Victory Office
Wiretap
Wordpress
Wordpress blog
World Health Organization
World Net Daily
World War II
Writ
YouTube
Zach Jones blog
Zeituni Onyango


Pages 
About
Donate to the Cause
Kerchner V Obama Lawsuit
Obama Indictment
Philip J Berg Lawsuit
Protecting Obama, Justice Dept. Collusion
US Constitution Hall of Shame

Archives 
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
December 2009
November 2009
October 2009
September 2009
August 2009
July 2009
June 2009
May 2009
April 2009
March 2009
February 2009
January 2009
December 2008
November 2008
October 2008
September 2008
August 2008
July 2008
June 2008
May 2008
April 2008
March 2008
February 2008

Blogroll

Citizen Journalism
Dr. Orly Taitz, Obama Eligibility Controversy
Larry Sinclair's Hour of Power
Obambi, The truth about Obama
Restore The Constitutional Republic
The Truth About Global Warming
Truth in Politics
WordPress.com
WordPress.org
Zach Jones Following Larry Sinclair story







			Theme: Coraline by Automattic.  Blog at WordPress.com.



















