North Anna Nuclear Reactors Only Designed to Withstand 5.9 - 6.1 Magnitude Earthquake

Skip to Main Content




home
login
contact




 



DONATE TODAY











ABOUT

Annual Reports
Board & Staff
Contact
Foundation Support
Honorees
Impact
Interns & Fellows
IRS Compliance
Job Opportunities
Methodology
Mission Statement
Podcasts
Privacy Policy
Watercooler


DONATE

Give Now
Give Later
Give In the Name of Others
Give Stocks
Give Matching Gifts
Give through CFC #10785
Other Ways to Give
What Others Have Said About POGO
Why Donate to POGO?
POGO Contribution Acceptance Policy


INVESTIGATIONS

Contract Oversight
Financial Oversight
Good Government
Government Corruption
Government Oversight
Government Secrecy
Homeland Security
Housing
National Security
Natural Resources
Nuclear Security & Safety
Public Health
Transportation
Whistleblower Issues


PRESS ROOM

Press Alert Archive
POGO in the News 
Press Room Sign-up Form
RSS Feeds
Staff Experts
Podcasts


DO SOMETHING
BLOG



















Blog search:











Sign up for POGO email updates
Podcasts: RSS | iTunes
Send a news tip or suggestion
Report corruption











MUST-READ POSTS:



The National Institutes of Health New Ethics Rules: A Swing and a Miss



A Super Congress Requires Super Transparency



POGO Letter Prompts Conflict of Interest Audit of DARPA  


Latest podcast





Get to Know an Agency: A Refresher Course on the Office of Special Counsel and Whistleblowers


Latest video





  Help Marine Corps Whistleblower Get his Career Back  





Categories

Blog Bizness
Campaign Finance
Checks and Balances
Congressional Oversight
Contract Oversight
Cronyism
DCAA
Defense
Deficit 
Democracy
Earmarks
Embassy Guards
Energy & Environment
Ethics
Explainers
FAPIIS
FCC
Federal Advisory Committees
Financial Oversight
FINRA
FOIA Fridays
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
Foreign Lobbying
Ghostwriting
Gov2.0
H1N1 Vaccine Program
Homeland Security
Human trafficking
Inherently Governmental Functions
Intelligence
Interviews
Joint Strike Fighter
JSF Alternate Engine 
Lobbying
Media Criticism
Miscellaneous
Morning Smoke
NASA
Nuclear Security
Oil and Gas Royalties
Oil Spill / MMS
Open Government
Podcasts
Presidential Transition
Private Security Contractors
Public Health
Quote of the Day
Revolving Door
Science Policy
SEC
SIGAR
SPOGO (on State Governments)
State Department
State secrets privilege
Super Congress
Transportation/FAA
Videos
Waste
Watching the Watchdogs
Whistleblower Protection




Recent Posts

FOIA Friday: Deficiencies Found in Air Force Ground Safety Program
FEMA Wants Ice Cream Social
Why the Pentagon Needs Fewer Death Stars and More R2-D2s
Diplomatic Cover: Did the State Dept. Facilitate "Extraordinary Rendition"?
Morning Smoke: Where Other Agencies Compete, the Pentagon Goes No-Bid on Contracts
Wartime Contracting Commission Report Forecasts Major Challenges for State Department
From Amey to Zakheim: 7 Quotable Quotes on Wartime Contracting Commission's Final Report
SEC Whistleblower Comes Under Scrutiny--Another Case of "Kill the Messenger"?
An Ounce of Prevention is Worth a Pound of Cure in National Security
Non-Partisan Commission Urges Congress to Adopt Contracting Reform's




Recent Comments

“Bruce E. Woych” on: Commission on Wartime Contracting Final Report: A Decade's Lessons on Contingency Contracting
“Bruce E. Woych” on: From Amey to Zakheim: 7 Quotable Quotes on Wartime Contracting Commission's Final Report
“Elliott Lugo” on: Release the Hounds
“pieniaszek” on: From Amey to Zakheim: 7 Quotable Quotes on Wartime Contracting Commission's Final Report
“Emile Zola” on: Diplomatic Cover: Did the State Dept. Facilitate "Extraordinary Rendition"?









Blogroll

Ares
American Federation of Government Employees Union Blog
Arms Control Wonk
ABC's The Blotter
Battleland
CG Blog: An Unofficial Coast Guard Blog
Counterterrorism Blog
The Daily Watchdog
Defense and the National Interest
Defense Industry Daily
Defense Tech
Dirt Diggers Digest
Eyes on the Ties >> a blog by LittleSis
Federal Diary
Federal Eye
Feral Jundi
GovCentral
Gov Exec's FedBlog
Harper's
Instapundit
Judicial Watch's Corruption Chronicles
Ms Sparky
Murdoc Online
National Security Legislative Calendar
Ploughshares Fund Blog

ProPublica
PMSC Observer
Secrecy News 
Sense on Cents
Space for Transparency
Sunlight Foundation Blogs
The Art of Access
The Will and the Wallet
TPM Muckraker
War and Piece
Whistleblogger
Wired's Danger Room


Privacy Policy






Home
> 
            Blog






« The National Institutes of Health New Ethics Rules: A Swing and a Miss |
        Main
        | Morning Smoke: Rare Quake Shuts Down Nuclear Reactors, But Little Damage »

Aug 23, 2011


North Anna Nuclear Reactors Only Designed to Withstand 5.9 - 6.1 Magnitude Earthquake





Tweet




By BRYAN RAHIJA
Bob Alvarez, a Senior Scholar at the Institute for Policy Studies (IPS) who with support from POGO authored a recent report on the dangers associated with how the majority of nuclear spent fuel is stored in the U.S., just sent the following in an email regarding this afternoon's earthquake felt across the East Coast:

An earthquake measuring 5.9 on the Richter scale just occurred less than a hour ago. It's epicenter was in Mineral, VA—approximately 10 miles from two nuclear power reactors at the North Anna site. According to a representative of Dominion Power, the two reactors were designed to withstand a  5.9-6.1 quake. The Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) ranked the North Anna Reactors as being 7th in the nation in terms of earthquake risks.
Control rods are automatically inserted to halt a reactor, if it is impacted by an earthquake. However, the reactor core still has a large amount of decay heat that requires power to remove it if there is a loss of offsite power to prevent a melt down. It is reported that the North Anna reactors were shut down and is operating with back-up diesel generators. The failure to remove reactor decay heat is what led to severe accidents at the Fukusima nuclear site on Japan. It is not clear, at this time, what damage might have been sustained at the nuclear site.
The North Anna reactors are of the Westinghouse Pressurized Water design and went on line in 1979 and 1980 respectively. Since then the reactors have generated approximately 1,200 metric tons of nuclear spent fuel containing about 228,000 curies of highly radioactive materials—among the largest concentrations of radioactivity in the United States.
Nearly 40 percent of the radioactivity in the North Anna spent fuel pools is cesium-137—a long-lived radioisotope that gives off potentially dangerous penetrating radiation and also accumulates in food over a period of centuries. The North Anna Pools hold about 15-30 times more Cs-137 than was released by the Chernobyl accident in 1986. In 2003, IPS helped lead a study warning that drainage of a pool might cause a catastrophic radiation fire, which could render an area uninhabitable greater than that created by the Chernobyl accident.
The spent fuel pools at North Anna contain 4-5 times more than their original designs intended. As in Japan, all U.S. power nuclear power plant spent fuel pools do not have steel lined, concrete barriers that cover reactor vessels to prevent the escape of radioactivity. They are not required to have back-up generators to keep used fuel rods cool, if offsite power is lost. Even though they contain these very large amount of radioactivity, spent reactor fuel pools in the U.S. are mostly contained in ordinary industrial structures designed to protect them against the elements.

Update: Bloomberg reports that the North Anna power plant has lost power.

Dominion Resources Inc. lost all offsite power at its  North Anna nuclear power plant in Virginia and began using backup diesel  generators after a 5.9-magnitude earthquake struck nearby.
One of the four diesel generators stopped working  after startup, David McIntyre, a spokesman for the U.S. Nuclear  Regulatory Commission, said in an e-mail today. There were no reports of  damage at the plant, he said.

Bryan Rahija edits POGO's blog.
Follow @bryanrahija





Posted at 04:54 PM in Nuclear Security  | Permalink









Trackbacks

Trackback URL for this entry:
http://www.typepad.com/services/trackback/6a00d8341c68bf53ef015434c3a4bb970c
Listed below are links to weblogs that reference North Anna Nuclear Reactors Only Designed to Withstand 5.9 - 6.1 Magnitude Earthquake:





Comments





plumbing


This is really scary. I wonder why people tend to do these nuclear reactors knowing that it can be harmful. 


                            Posted on:
                            Aug 30, 2011 at 05:12 AM





Cheryl


How interesting (and typical) that I didn't see a word from the media or any statements issued from the government regarding any possible threats from nuclear reactors that may have been affected and/or damaged.


                            Posted on:
                            Aug 27, 2011 at 05:46 PM





Emile Zola


A tragedy, any tragedy as with beauty, is in the eyes of the beholder and the proof is in the pudding.  This magnitude of Earthquake would have passed, almost, un-noticed or blamed  as a war between gangs and there the reason for Californians to make fun of those panic driven Yankees.
But I feel your pain.  People who are driven by panic can't take it as others used to much greater and devastated than any thing the East can experience.  I recall how, not too long ago, DOD was trying to film a recruiting ad and sent Air Force one for such endeavor and lo and behold, NYC went into panic mode and one fire-crack becomes an atomic bomb.  As for that baloney how grave and serious the incident could have become, well, it's also another the sky is falling from the chicken littles of this "brave" nation.
As bad as the situation is today, thanks to tea partiers, republicans, this is just trivia pursuit in comparison.  Imagine that Eric Cantor the neo-Nazi representative of where the earthquake happened, vowed to withhold money to the citizens unless money could be found anywhere but the richest of the rich and to think that this Nazi at heart gets elected over and over and their citzenry almost homeless.  It’s like asking for more blood from a corpse. I wish I could slapped those dummies to wake them up of that masochist high.



                            Posted on:
                            Aug 27, 2011 at 12:32 PM





Fern


Go God! Nuking the House Republicans!


                            Posted on:
                            Aug 27, 2011 at 10:55 AM





Dfens


We wouldn't have produced any significant amount of nuclear waste if we'd been allowed to use breeder reactor technology.  Breeder reactors are too dangerous, so goes the mythology, so apparently nuclear waste is not.  Geothermal energy is touted as "renewable".  The reason the Earth's core is still molten giving us the magnetic field that protects us from ionizing solar and other space radiation -- the decay of Uranium and other fissionable elements.  But uranium is bad.  Everyone knows that.


                            Posted on:
                            Aug 24, 2011 at 08:22 AM





clint


To all the nuke-lovers talking about coal: there is nothing wrong with trying to improve the way nuclear power is done in the US. 
That coal kills more people is, well great, but a red herring. 
We are trying to make sure nuclear power is carried out in a way that would be safer than it is being done now. Can you understand this, or is too complicated? 
>6000 US troops were also killed due to our oil "strategic interests" in the middle east -- that is not an argument to not improve the way nuclear power is done.
Please try to have a point if you post about coal.


                            Posted on:
                            Aug 23, 2011 at 11:43 PM





Thinker


In 30 years, North Anna has generated 1200 metric tons of nuclear waste, about 109 cubic meters of uranium dioxide. 
Every day, a coal power plant needs about 5 1/2 train car loads of coal, or about 781 cubic meters of coal per day.  Which all ends up as CO2 in the air or toxic ash that needs to be carefully disposed of.


                            Posted on:
                            Aug 23, 2011 at 06:33 PM





JHolmes


yeah, and bullets don't kill people , bleeding does


                            Posted on:
                            Aug 23, 2011 at 05:04 PM





MaryM


Excellent post. Thank you.  While the spent fuel ponds may not be required to have back up energy, it would be good to find out if the North Anna ponds do or do not. If not, what is the status of the ponds?


                            Posted on:
                            Aug 23, 2011 at 04:36 PM





unknwown


 Man in his all knowing wisdom is determined to destroy himself. 


                            Posted on:
                            Aug 23, 2011 at 04:31 PM





Dfens


Even with an unprecedented magnitude 5.9 earthquake occurring this year, Virginia will still not have a single person killed by nuclear power, but will bury 100 coal miners this year just like they did last year and the year before that and the year before that...  The irony continues unabated as the Luddites win again.


                            Posted on:
                            Aug 23, 2011 at 04:25 PM











Post a comment

Feedback and comments are more than welcome on our blog! Please keep them concise  and stay on topic.  Comments are moderated and may not appear right away. Our comment form accepts basic html, so hyperlinks, bolding, italics, and underline tags will work just fine.



                                
                                        If you have a TypeKey or TypePad account, please
                                        Sign In


                                You are currently signed in as
                                (nobody).
                                Sign Out



Name:



Email Address: (Not displayed with comment.)



URL:




                                        Remember personal info?



Comments:




















Home
Report Corruption
Donate
Investigations
About
Contact
Press Room
FCMD
Podcasts
Shop











Connect with us:








Project On Government Oversight (POGO)
1100 G Street, NW, Suite 900    Washington, DC 20005
						Phone: (202) 347-1122     Fax: (202) 347-1116     Email: info@pogo.org


Our Mission:
Founded in 1981, the Project On Government Oversight is a nonpartisan independent watchdog that champions good government reforms.  POGO’s investigations into corruption, misconduct, and conflicts of interest achieve a more effective, accountable, open, and ethical federal government. 






























