فرجينيا الزلزال “وقد شعرت و” reports – 112 تقارير

زلزال تقريرأفضل التقارير المستقلة زلزال موقع في العالم
أضرار كبيرة 2011
المعتدلة الضرر 2011
مهم 2010 الزلازل

كرايستشيرش 09/2010
كرالييفو, صربيا
تسونامي اندونيسيا


CATDAT 2010

الزلازل المدمرة 2010
البراكين المدمرة 2010






منزل
حول
الزلازل القاتلة 2011

كرايستشيرش, نيوزيلندا 22/02
يونان, الصين 10/03
اليابان تسونامي 11/03
تاتشيليك, ميانمار 24/03
لوركا, إسبانيا 11/05
Sımav, تركيا 19/05
Nabro بركان, اريتريا 12/06
كرايستشيرش, نيوزيلندا 14/06
قيرغيزستان / أوزبكستان 19/07


تأهب
فهم …

الزلزال حيث
فهم …


القوائم, أخبار, البلدان

القوائم وأخبار 2011
مقالات لكل بلد


 


فرجينيا الزلزال “وقد شعرت و” reports – 112 تقارير
آخر تحديث: سبتمبر 5, 2011 في 7:31 صباحا بواسطة بواسطة أرماند Vervaeck ودانييل جيمس 
أغسطس 23, 2011  بواسطة أرماند Vervaeck ودانييل جيمس  
أيضا قراءة :  حجم 4.5 هزة ارتدادية فيرجينيا + 93 "هل شعرت أنه” تقارير
أيضا قراءة : اختيار الفيديو من الزلزال ولاية فرجينيا التي Report.com الزلزال
أيضا قراءة :  زلزال قوي يهز جدا وخطيرة ولاية فرجينيا – نظرة عامة على الضرر
أيضا قراءة :  فهم حجم 5.8 فرجينيا الزلزال (أغسطس 23, 2011)
"هل شعرت أنه" تقارير كما تلقتها Report.com الزلزال
قيم MMI (إذا أشار) بعد النص (ثالثا: ضعف يهز, رابعا الخفيفة تهز, V معتدل يهز, سادسا قوي يهز, سابعا قوي جدا اهتزاز)
مقاطعة لويزا, VA - كنت داخل إحدى المدارس بأضرار بالغة عندما ضرب الزلزال- وكان الحطام المتساقط, من الصعب جدا على المشي. مرعب, المحنة المروعة, ولكنه نجا من جميع الأطفال والموظفين بسرعة ودون الصفر.  معجزة!  استمر ذلك حوالي 30 ثانية, وأعقب و 3 هزات ارتدادية.  ربما ما سوف نتذكر دائما هي الراعي السنانير في الرصيف الذي أبقى يتمايل, حتى بعد أن الضوضاء والاهتزاز لم تعد قابلة للكشف.  ولست في حاجة إلى تجربة أخرى واحدة من هذه.  أبدا. – MMI السابع
غايثرسبيرغ, MD – MMI 4 checked – Sitting in basement. House starts shaking, stuff falling off shelves in the basement. Not windy outside.
Buffalo, NY – MMI 4 checked -
Williamsburg VA, الولايات المتحدة الأمريكية – MMI 23 checked – At about 1:50 PM EDT felt slight shaking indoors as if a very heavy truck were driving nearby. Caused hanging chimes on grandfather's clock to ring slightly. Very short duration – 15 إلى 30 ثانية.
Lovettsville, VA, الولايات المتحدة الأمريكية – MMI 2 3 Checked – started at 13:53 EST and lasted about 5 ثانية
Southport, NC. – MMI 4 checked – Rocked open solid wood doors @ 3 – 6 inches.
Harrisburg, السلطة الفلسطينية – MMI 4 checked – We evacuated our building after the building shook. We went back in when we realized it was almost the entire East Coast felt the shake.
Frederick, MD – MMI 5 checked – The Telephone lines outside were all swaying and inside the cubicles were shaking for probably 5 ثانية.
Northern KY – MMI 4 checked – Working on 5th floor of concrete building in greater Cincinnati area. Felt shaking/swaying of building, something in my office made a noise. Scared me. Several people felt it, but some say they didn't. Happened on 8/23 في حوالي 1:52 pm.
Rockford, OHIO – MMI 23 Checked – في 1:57 م. أغسطس 23, 2011, my desk chair rocked back and forth for two minutes, while the windown shade tapped rapidly and lightly on the glass.
Clarksburg WV – MMI 4 checked – Vibrations felt, items slightly shaking.
Pointe Claire, QC – MMI Checked – I was sitting in a medical building (2nd floor) waiting for my appointment when the floor started to sway.  The doctor considered getting out through the window but they didn't open.  We all sat them dumbstruck, not knowing what to do.  Luckily it didn't last long…
St-Albert, ON, كندا - MMI 2 3 checked – The building was moving back and forth, the blinds were rocking.  That was August 23rd 2011 at around 2pm EST.  It rocked for over 30 ثانية, I think close to a minute.
Reading, السلطة الفلسطينية – MMI 5 checked – Work in a three story building in Green Hills PA.  The building shook for about 15-20 ثانية.
Canton, Ohio – MMI 5 checked – At work on second floor of building. Thought I was imaginining it at first until others in my building started coming out into the hallway asking if we should evacuate.  My computer monitors were shaking and I could feel the floor shaking.  I thought that somewhere there had been an explosion and we were feeling the aftershocks.  Kind of scary.
North Haven, CT – MMI 5 checked – The floor underneath me at work shook NOTICEABLY (large plant/tree in front of my desk was SWAYING!) for about 15 – 20 ثانية. I looked outside to see if there was a huge 18-wheeler outside (and there was not). I've never felt an earthquake but I instinctively knew that this was something which could potentially be dangerous and I started to leave the building (1 story)but by the time I got up it had stopped.
Ithaca, NY – MMI 5 checked – Prolonged shaking in a back and forth motion for over 30 seconds.  I was seated at home, reading, when the kids' mobile hanging from the ceiling started to move.  Then the rocker across the room moved back and forth for nearly a minute, until the sensation subsided.  The dog, who was upstairs, got up from his nap and came down, like he know something new was happening.  I never thought I would feel such a strong and continous sensaition in NY, having lived in Greece where I experienced many.
Johnstown, السلطة الفلسطينية – MMI 2 3 checked – My desk shock lightly. It felt like I was rocking gently back and forth.  Felt the shaking for about 5-7 ثانية. Very weird feeling!
St-Albert, ON, كندا - MMI II - III – The building was moving back and forth, the blinds were rocking.  That was August 23rd 2011 at around 2pm EST.  It rocked for over 30 ثانية, I think close to a minute.
Pittsburgh, السلطة الفلسطينية – MMI II - III – Just before 2pm EST we felt our two-story brick office building swaying.
New Jersey - MMI الخامس – I was sitting at my desk at home and the entire desk was shaking and also my kitchen table. The dogs got up and was looking around to see what was up! I didn't know what the heck was going on! I live in Northern New Jersey and my neighbor told me there was an earthquake! Crazy!
Oxford, Md. – MMI الرابع – Working in my office, seemed like floor became somewhat liquid, building movement less than 10 ثانية, but felt like I was on a boat in the water. Furniture swayed, pictures on wall moved, actually kind of exciting. No damage just the thrill.  Wow, an earthquake in Maryland. Go figure!
Lynbrook, NY – MMI الرابع – Here in Long Island, NY my bookshelves were swaying and windows were rattling.
East Rutherford, NJ – MMI II - III – Sitting at the table working on a project on my laptop. My 8-year-old son was sitting at his laptop beside me. The table started shaking. I thought my son was doing it, so I told him to stop, and he said he wasn't doing anything. That's when I realized the curtains, the bathroom door and anything else not securely nailed down were also shaking. Checked the basement for any cracks or leaks, checked with neighbors and local police who also experienced this, checked with my mom and sister who live south of here, and all reports corroborate. I have lived 39 years in northern New Jersey and never felt anything like this. I must admit, it's got me feeling surprisingly shaken. Pun intended.
Morristown, NJ – MMI II - III – We are on the 4th floor at 445 South Street, an office building in Morristown, NJ.  Shortly before 2:00 م. I was at my desk and I felt that something was wrong.  Then I experienced a swaying feel.  I looked down and observed the chair I was sitting in was rolling back and forth a couple of inches.  I didn't hear anything but it was unsettling so I left my office.  All my coworkers were out of their seats as well.  No one knew what was happening but we all agreed to leave.  And we took the stairs and got out of the building.
Accokeek, MD – MMI السابع – Very loud.  Floor shook.  Trees rattled as with wind.  Stuff fell of walls on nearby house, electricity out there.  Overall little damage.  I immediately knew what it was.
كندا, Quebec, Pointe-Calumet - MMI II - III – Vers 14h tout s'est mis a vibrer dans la maison, les lampes, portes plantes durant environ 20 ثان.
Wellsville, NY – light shaking for about a minute or so. – MMI الرابع
Harrisburg, السلطة الفلسطينية – We evacuated our building after the building shook. We went back in when we realized it was almost the entire East Coast felt the shake. Zip Code 17112 -  MMI الرابع
Willards, md – Felt shaking round 1:52pm in willards,md on 8/23/2011. Thought it was an airplane but it continued for bout a minute n my stuff in my shower started falling out, my tv almost fell off the stand. I thought my apartment was collapsing. Then my aunt called n said it was an earthquake. Started n va n had a magnitude of 5.9. Omg scared me so bad that i called my hubby n cried for him to come home from work. – MMI الخامس
Rockford, Ohio – في 1:57 م. أغسطس 23, 2011, my desk chair rocked back and forth for two minutes, while the windown shade tapped rapidly and lightly on the glass. – MMI الثالث
Northport, Long Island, ny – MMI الرابع
Philadelphia, السلطة الفلسطينية – The house shook…cup fell over – MMI V-VI
Philadelphia, السلطة الفلسطينية – Here in NE Philadelphia everything shook badly.  I was sitting at my computer desk and my glass went flying off of the desk. The chair and desk were shaking.  I lost cable tv and my cell is not working.
Chicago - about 1:00am felt rocking, glass shaking very moderate but still felt it twice between 12:30-1:30am central standard time – MMI الرابع
Roanoke, فرجينيا - trees swayed and my stomach felt upset-very sharp and over quite quickly – MMI السادس
Niagara Falls, Ontario Canada – Reported at 1:44pm EST. Environment Canada reports a 5.5. I wonder if there is a fault line Virginia – Niagara Falls? – MMI الخامس
Barrie, Ontario, كندا – Sitting at kitchen table and felt some very slight movement and disorientation.  I live in Barrie, Ontario – 1 hr north of Toronto, ON Canada – MMI الثالث
Bloomington IN – 8-23-2011 1355, Location 6th floor office in hospital, my office chair shook and roof top satilite dishes were shaking. – MMI الثالث
Winston Salem, Forsyth county, NC – Our neighborhood in the south of the county has experienced mild quakes before that were rated between 2 إلى 3+. This shaking was much stronger and longer than previously felt. When it first started, it felt like a minor quake, but it got stronger. It seemed to last a long time. My computer monitor was shaking and rocking on its base to the point I had to hold it to keep it from falling, but nothing fell off the walls or shelves. My husband reports that his 4 story office building was shaking. It seemed stronger than "light shaking", but I checked that based on your description of a truck hitting the house. My sister works in the city library in Chapel Hill,and said that the whole library was rattling. – MMI الرابع
owensboro ky – sitting in my car, felt it swaying – MMI الثالث
Mooresville, NC – I was sitting on the floor drawing and the plants next to the curio cabinets started shaking, then something fell in the curio cabinets, and then the coffee table started shaking and me and my mother started shaking. – MMI الثالث
Warren County, Pohatcong Township, New Jersey -  I felt my house vibrating, it is a two story small unattached house – MMI الخامس
Trumansburg - I was working at my computer, and felt a shaking. It only lasted a few seconds, but I definitely felt it.  I thought it was my washing machine which shakes a lot, but the washer was not on. I pray for those who were affected by this. – MMI الثالث
Trois-Rivières, كندا - heure hour: 13:57 40 secondes dont 10 secondes faibles augmentant durant 20 secondes de façon horizontale. – MMI السادس
Erie, Pa – Sitting in my office chair and felt little tremoring.  I figured I was shaking from being hungry… It happens when I exercise hard.  Figured it strange with my just sitting, but I blew it off. – MMI الثالث
Wilkesboro, NC – Graystone Manor Bed & Breakfast in Wilkesboro, NC. We are on the mountain between N. Wilkesboro/Wilkesboro. It rocked the cars and rattle our huge stone home for about 2-4 دقائق. No warning, no dogs barking…just out of nowhere. No pictures fell down. No damage visible. Just a wierd silence and movement only. – MMI الخامس
Powhatan, فرجينيا - I was taking a nap when all of a sudden I felt the house shaking and my dog started barking. I went out into the kitchen to see what was happening and all the glasses in the cupboards were shaking. Then as soon as it started, it stopped. – MMI الرابع
Pittsburgh السلطة الفلسطينية – Went down for a Nap and the bed started trembling – MMI الرابع
Quebec, كندا – Plus tôt cet après-midi, j'ai senti un léger tremblement de terre. Suffisamment pour faire une recherche sur Internet et apprendre qu'il y en avait effectivement eu un dont l'épicentre se trouve sur la côte est des États-Unis. Lorsque j'ai senti le mouvement, j'ai regardé le cintre suspendu à la patère de mon bureau et je l'ai vu oscillé légèrement. Cela a duré quelques secondes. – MMI الثالث
Statesville, NC – Laying in bed. Lasted 5-7 secinds. Could feel the house being shaken. – MMI الرابع
Rhinebeck, NY – Concrete patio shook gently for at least 30 -45 ثانية. Watched water glass rock during the shaking – MMI الثالث
Chemung - Felt it in Elmira, NY. Items knocked off TV set and wastepaper basket fell over. Was tilting in my computer chair against a wall in a 200+ old building. Nerves are shot – MMI الخامس
Culpeper, VA – Initial earthquake before 2:00 No structural damage that can be seen. Items knocked off of walls and shelves, cabinet doors opened. One aftershock around 2:50pm lasting almost 5 seconds and another around 3:03pm weaker and shorter. No damages from aftershocks. – MMI السادس
Charlottesville  VA – I work at a large church and there was a loud boom like a bomb and then the whole church started shaking like a tin toy.  It shook for a really long time really strong and then when it stopped shaking, the earth was still trembling.
Morgantown WV – It was kinda strange. Everything was shaking. The floor. Filing cabinets. Never experienced a earthquake before! Never want to experiance it again – MMI الخامس
New Hampshire - sitting in the kitchen and felt the whole house shake. There were no loud trucks or other explinations. My son and husband felt it too – MMI الثالث
Hagerstown Maryland – I was on a cigarrette break at work and felt the table shake and my cup was gliding a bit over the table. A van neerby shook like someone was movin in it and car alarms went off. Was confronted by many people about it – MMI الرابع
High Point, NC – I was on the third floor during class.  Windows shook and everyone wondered what was going on.  Only lasted about a minute, mostly enough to freak us out a bit. – MMI الرابع
Manteo, NC – Felt building swaying, saw interior door shaking. On second floor of building – MMI الرابع
Atlantic beach, N.C. – حول 4:40 pm felt rumbling on deck. An aftershock. And just another one – MMI الثالث
Charlottesville, Va – Loud rumbling sound, like a high speed aircraft flying low, house and floor beneath me vibrating and shaking, went outside, sidewalk vibrating/shaking, still thought maybe an aircraft flying high speed low, but it kept going for about 1 min., with no aircraft visible. Realized it was a quake by then, everyone coming out of homes in neighborhood looking around and saying 'earthquake'.  My dogs barked.  My little lap dog shook in fear for a short while after.  No damage at all that I see.  Moved my 4×8 sheets of wood laying on the ground about 1 inch, and sent my exercise ball rolling down the hill from the back porch – MMI الخامس
Stockdale, السلطة الفلسطينية  – Felt the couch moving underneath me. Pitures on the wall shook. I jokingly said it felt like an earthquake. 5 minutes later we received a call to see if we felt the earthquake!! Very creepy feeling. Hope I never experience it again – MMI الرابع
Verona, VA - Windows of store were shaking. Squeaking. Scared me half to death. A few things fell, nothing big – MMI الخامس
Columbus, OH – On the 5th floor of my office building, I (and all of my coworkers) felt a shaking around 1:55 pm. Some thought it was vertigo, I felt my desk and floor shaking, and some felt their chairs roll on the floor. Another coworker said she saw "my window and desk moving in different directions." – MMI الرابع
Vaudreuil, كندا - Tremblement de plus de 30 secondes assez fort pour que l'eau de nos verres d'eau bouge et que les stores de fenêtre de bureau se déplace et que les écrans d'ordinateur bougent!!!! – MMI الخامس
Glen Rock, السلطة الفلسطينية  – It wasn't an 18 wheeler truck passing by, it felt like a chopper overhead only it came from the ground and shook the house!!  We now have 8 scavengers flying around the area outside Spring Valley County Park which tells me that a lot of the animals have died from this.  Cell phone lines state circuits busy, and after you dial a number via home phone, we get nothing but a dead sound.
All this after 3 days of intermittent storms – MMI السادس
Silver Spring, MD – I was on the 4th floor of an office building.  I first heard a noise that I thought was a VERY strong gust of wind and I looked outside and all of the sudden everything started shaking as if it was made of cardboard.  Being from the D.C. منطقة, the first thing I thought it was, was a bomb.  Luckily, it was not!  The intense shaking felt as if it happened for maybe 10 seconds.  لكن, the guy I was talking to had felt it rumbling for about 20 seconds prior. – MMI السابع
Lorton VA - I was in my bathroom cleaning up I felt a rather large rumble and I thought they where blowing rocks but the shaking wasn't stopping and all I could see was things bouncing and my dresser and picture frames fell. I can't get rid of the feeling I had at the moment – MMI السادس
Chestertown, MD – Was sitting in the car in a parking lot. I thought my girlfriend was rocking the car (Playing with me) she thought I was doing the same. Plate glass windows in the stores were flexing pretty good. I keep hearing 5 أو 10 ثانية. I swear it went on more like a minuet here.. – MMI الخامس
Silver Spring, MD – Doors started shaking then nick nacks then whole house shook violently got kids underneath stairs very quickly, we were all shaken up! – MMI السادس
Norton, Ohio – I had a customer sitting in front of me and she asked if my office was moving. I thought she was going to faint until the office walls swayed and items hanging behind me were swaying. Very strange sensation – MMI الرابع
Annapolis, MD – A bird flew into the glass window about 30 seconds before we felt the 4th floor shake i our building.  I lasted about 2-3 minutes and the intensity grew and then stopped – MMI الخامس
Rougemont, Québec, كندا - J'étais assise à l'ordinateur et ma chaise s'est mise a bougée d'avant en arrière pendant 30 secondes.  Je n'ai pas aimé la sensation. J'habite Rougemont au Québec près de la route 112 – MMI الخامس
Jetersville, VA - Around fifty miles, as the crow flies, from the epicenter.  Everything shook for about 30-45 seconds.  Ran outside the house when it started and went back inside two minute later.  A few things were knocked over on my bookshelves and the cat (who dozed on the back deck through the entire event, apparently) gave me a very odd look! – MMI الخامس
Virginia Beach - I began to stand up from my desk and I felt as if I had a head rush. Like I had gotten dizzy or even drank too much. Such a strange sensation, but then I noticed the clipboards nailed to the wall were swaying on their own. Moments after I felt normal again people were rushing into the cafeteria next to my office with people saying "Am I the only one who felt that??!!" – MMI السادس
Cambridge, Ontario, كندا - في حوالي 1 30 pm or so i was walking up to the top floor of our house. My father was lying on the couch on the floor below. When i got up to the top he told me to stop jumping on the floor. the couch he was on was shaking. i hadnt moved at all to cause this… but i felt the floor below me shake as well. i looked into one of the bedrooms and looked at the light in the ceiling. it was shaking and rattling. even a minute later… hanging lights and things were still shaking. it stopped after another minute. – MMI الثالث
Sinking Spring, السلطة الفلسطينية – Entire house shook for 10 +/- ثانية. Pots and pans, suspended on a pot rack, clanged together. – MMI الخامس
Middle River, MD -  was inside my home when i heard a loud rumbling sound and then everything started shaking and swaying…lasted about 30 secounds…could not believe what was happining. my son was outside and said the ground was moving under him…scary moments for people who have never experinced an earthquake..never thought that i would experience an earthquake here in maryland – MMI السادس
Tampa, FL - I was on the 5th floor of my office building in Tampa (Brandon side) working on my computer when I felt a slight sway/shake feeling for what must have been 40 seconds or so. It was very subtle but I definately felt something weird…the word earthquake actually crossed my mind… I stopped working and looked around my desk to see if anything else was moving; but nothing was. After a little while everything was okay again and no one else mentioned anything. Then about 30 minutes later I heard someone say "that was the 2nd earthquake today". I immediately jumped up and asked where they were. They said one in VA and one in CO. I couldn't believe that I could have felt the one from VA all the way in Florida. – MMI الثالث
Morrow, GA – Was sitting on the second story in class when we noticed the building moving. It was very slight and more disorienting then anything – MMI الثالث
Arlington, VA – 2 mi outside Washington, DC. Office building shook for about 10-15 sec. We were evacuated to the street for about 40 دقائق, with cell phone service tied up. Emergency response vehicles were out and about. After waiting out any aftershocks we returned to work – NNI IV
Richboro السلطة الفلسطينية – At approximately 1:51 in the afternoon, the furniture in my home began to shake back and forth. The cabinet doors in the kitchen all opened up, books on the bookshelf became dislodged, and pictures hanging on the walls all tilted sideways. It lasted only a few minutes. My cat took off running and became a huge puff ball from fear and my dog hid under my legs. It was unnerving but no real damage took place. A friend of mine in the Glenside, PA area had her chimney collapse during the quake. The only other issue was that my cell phone and landlines were out for about 3 ساعات. – رابعا
Barrie, Ontario, كندا - Felt like the floor was mounted on Jello, dozens of people in the building immediately stood up to see if others knew what it was. استمر ذلك حوالي 30 ثانية. 900 kilometers away! – MMI الثالث
Fairfax, VA 22031 – I was in my basement office in front of my computer, running a virtual software class over the Internet in Northern Virginia. All the students were remote, in Texas. Just before 2pm EST the house suddenly started shaking and there was a lot of noise. I was very surprised – my first reaction was to think that a group of crazy people had broken into the house and were vandalizing everything and just really whooping it up on the main floor above me. I almost yelled out to the people I thought had "broken in." I decided it was not people when it kept shaking for almost 30 ثانية. I told the students what I was experiencing and that I had to go outside to see what was going on and make sure there was no damage. Neighbors were in the street talking about it. Everyone had felt it. I didn't see any structural damage but a few small things had fallen off tables and furniture onto the floor, and some pictures on the wall had gone askew but had not fallen off. That was the strongest quake I've ever experienced. It was a complete surprise, as we almost never get quakes of any magnitude or duration in this area. I was most amazed that it didn't disconnect my Internet connection, because we get some wicked thunderstorms and wind storms around here that do just that (knock out the power), especially in the summer – MMI السادس
Richmond Virginia - I was at work.and I felt it.I was downstairs washing so at first I thought it was the  washing machine which shaking ,I run up the steps and then I realize it was the whole house shaking,I begin yelling for my patient and others in the house and we  prayed.and went out on the porch for a while.everyone in  that area in Richmond Virginia was coming out of their homes scare the earth quake would come again.Thank God everything was okay and knowone was hurt.
Richmond Virginia - Definitely unsteady to walk – MMI السادس
Elon, NC – MY CHILDREN FELT THE HOUSE SHAKING. SOUNDED LIKE PEOPLE WERE RUNNING AROUND UPSTAIRS. DAUGHTER HAD PICTUE FRAMES FALL OFF HER DRESSER. LEFT SCRATCHES ON THE WALL. NEIGHBOR CALLED TO SEE IF WE FELT IT. – MMI الخامس
Delaware, OH – Lasted 11-12 seconds.  Lamp on piano rocked back and forth.  Chair under me shook slightly – MMI الثالث
Pittsburgh, Pa – I was getting my room ready for the start of school tomorrow. My desk was shaking, the walls shook and the lights were swinging back and forth. This happened twice within 5 دقائق. What an eerie feeling!!! – ثالثا
Augusta, GA – I was at the Savannah River.. Parked at a nearby parking lot. I felt about three jolts shake my car. I figured it was just a close by railroad track however there was no train. Amazed an hour later I found out it was tremors from the VA earthquake. – MMI الرابع
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania – I was on the top floor of a 5 story building.  At around 2pm, everything began to shift back and forth about an inch and a half or two inches in each direction.  The ceiling light fixtures began to sway and the cords on the venetian blinds were swinging.  It was also accompanied by a rumbling sound.  This went on for about 30 seconds.  Then light tremors were felt for about another 30 seconds or so before things quieted down – MMI الخامس
Elizabeth, IN – It made my chair sway and we got nausiated – MMI الرابع
Morgantown, WV – It felt as if there was blasting at a mine – MMI الثالث
Dunn, NC – was setting at my desk and it start shaking i dint know what it was lasted aout 30 sec or so – MMI الثالث
Daytona Beach, FL – 10th Floor Oceanfront Condo. Sitting at computer. I recognized it as a very slight tremor similar to those I felt when I once lived in California. After a while I found out about the quake – MMI الثالث
Caswell County, NC – I was inside a two story house when it hit and the house shook the walls twisted made all sorts noises . Did not know what was going on my first earth quake ever it was a little weird.A lot of people felt it around here. – MMI الخامس
Fort Myers, Florida – I was taking a shower at about 1:51pm and suddenly felt a light swaying motion and a low vibration. استمر ذلك حوالي 30-40 sec. and actually caused my water flow to sputter a bit. I didnt think much of it for a while and went for a nap. I woke up around 4pm to watch the news and was blown away that I had felt a tremor from Virginia Earthquake over 750 miles from where I live. I must be super sensitive to feel an earthquake so far away from its epicenter… BIG TIME EXPERIENCE!!!  – MMI الرابع
Pittsburgh, Pa. – Was sitting at computer in bedroom, when I heard a rumble, and my dresser started to roll on its attached wheels  and the attached mirror was swinging as well.  I knew it was an earthquake as I have been in two in my lifetime: one in the Philippines, and one in Germantown, Md.  It was a scary experience.  Later.  A Pittsburgher – MMI السادس
Mount Vernon OH – I was torn between Moderate and Strong Shaking, because I lived through the earthquake and aftershocks of the Northeastern Ohio earthquake and aftershocks of the early eighties, centered near the Perry Nuclear Power Plant.  I felt ill just prior to and during the quake; as I have in the past.  This was more than the after shocks and I would mentally grade it, from my past experience, as a 3.2 إلى 3.7, but mostly likely a 3.7.  I was sitting at my computer, on the second level of my dwelling.  My flat screen monitor was moving, as was the lampshade of the light next to it and the solid oak chair that I was sitting upon.  I knew what it was and was glad that I had the experience to recognize it.  First contacts with others were mixed and the intial information.  Thank you for trying your best! Christina May, Mount Vernon OH – MMI السادس
Greensboro, NC – I experienced this on Tuesday, أغسطس 22, 2011, the day before the East Coast quake. It lasted 1-2 ثانية. I was sitting in my chair in my home office near downtown. I thought at the time that it might be a mild earthquake. – MMI الثالث
Raleigh,North Carolina – I was on the internet at the kitchen table when the USA VA. East Coast earthquake hit. Startled by what I was seeing. The room was moving all around me as I sat and starred. The walls went one way and the cabinet doors went the other way as they swung open. I looked out the back glass door on to the deck and it too was swaying and so were the potted plants. A few of the potted plants that were on the deck rail fell. I was not sure what happened since we do not get earthquakes here. I thought this was a safe place but not now. Is there any safe places??? Thank you for your site, I will bookmark it. – MMI الخامس
Secaucus, NJ – Happened at work, building shook, we were evacuated – MMI الخامس
bluewater beach,georgian bay, ontario, كندا – felt movement of dining table and chairs and saw the overhead chandelier swaying – MMI الثالث
Rhode Island - It was the strangest feeling. I thought I was dizzy at first. It seemed to have lasted for about 30 ثانية. No one else in my house felt it, kids were in the pool; the water probably "cushioned" it. Besides, they were jumping around. I was on the pool deck, which is probably why I felt it stronger than some people on the ground. Anyone driving in RI didn't feel it due to all of the potholes in our roads haha. – MMI الرابع
Port Saint Lucy, FL – was on-line at a desk felt like locomotive then realize that this was tremors – MMI الرابع
Greenfield, MA – I was at work on the second floor of a brick building. I thought the person standing behind me was swaying my chair until I noticed my monitors swaying. Everyone on the office knew it was an earthquake because it was a smooth sway, not the hard bumping of a train. As I was looking up the USGS site, my daughter called from 5 miles away. The quake woke her up and her kids felt it too. My son emailed me from the next town that he felt the swaying, and it even frightened the cat. One building near me was evacuated. I see reports that it lasted 10-15 seconds but I think it was closer to 30 ثانية, based on the fact that I was able to feel the sway, thought someone was swaying my chair, looked behind me, looked ahead and saw my monitors and other things in the room swaying, evaluate it as an earthquake, hear everyone's comments and look it up on line, all before the swaying stopped. – MMI الرابع
Williamston NC – في 1:52 I was sitting at my desk on a concrete ground floor in a strip mall. My work station started shaking like someone putting heavy boxes on another desk. It intensified with my feet shaking on the floor, the cabinet doors rattling and I heard a rumble like a train or heavy truck. The office power poles were moving slightly also. It lasted +/- 15 ثانية. It felt like there were two waves. We have no structural damage, but a lot of nerves rattled. We are +/- 230 miles from the epicenter in Virginia. I confirmed the Virginia earthquake within 2 minutes via the USGS earthquake site – MMI الرابع
Sewickley, السلطة الفلسطينية – I was on the 7th floor of Sewickley Hospital, 625 blackburn rd, sewickley, pa 15143 waiting for discharge when my bed and bedside table shook softly, almost wasn't sure if it had happened. The feeling was like when you are in your car and the one next to you moves and it feels like your car did. Onlt lasted about 5 أو 10 ثانية. I found out about 1/2 hr later that there was an earthquake. – ثالثا
Reston, VA – Was in my doctor's office on the third floor of medical building when we heard loud thumping & معتدل يهز, like a very heavy person running down the hall. But then we continued to hear it, and the sound grew louder and the shaking more intense until it was obvious the whole building was moving beneath us. We both looked at each other and said "What the heck is going on?" The lights flickered and everything in the room was teetering, threatening to fall over. When the shaking finally stopped, we got up and looked out the window; it seemed like everyone else had already gone outside. I was thinking maybe it was an earthquake, but it's so unusual to have an earthquake in this are, so I didn't really believe it until we went downstairs and a technician confirmed it. – MMI الخامس
Philadelphia City Center – tue 08/23/11: thought my big cat jumped on my bed + started pawing. لكن, he was sleeping next to me … – MMI الثالث
Alexandria, VA - Alexandria, VA – was at home with my 8 year old daughter, we were in my bedroom. Just having some chat time, my daughter getting some paper to draw on when the rumbling and shaking started… the bed was shaking so I thought it was a huge truck going by – except the whole house was shaking, and shaking and shaking – that's when I knew it was an earthquake, but I also thought it might have been a bomb or plane crash somewhere… like when I felt and heard the crash at the Pentagon on 9/11 miles away… This time, I grabbed my then crying daughter and ran to the bedroom doorway, then to the front door, and went outside, but no one was out in our neighborhood… we weren't sure if our 59 year old house was stable, but once the shaking stopped, it seemed safe to go back inside. I did hear some children crying up the street at the day care nearby… my daughter started crying again, I was shaking horribly – scared us to death – never having felt any earthquake of this magnitude EVER. I've only felt a minor one once before – but it was quick and short – several years ago. This time was quite different. Scared – that's an understatement. Terrified, more likely! (terrified by the thought it might have been a bombing of DC… and that our world as we knew it was over…) Guess I was one who was freaked out by the whole thing.
Seriously – it was the worst feeling… having experienced the absolutely beautiful day of 9/11, and getting that similar buzzy queasy feeling in my body. It was actually more frightening than that day – while the earthquake was happening – feeling like I couldn't protect my daughter and myself should the house collapse. I was glad when it was over, but the shakiness I felt (and my daughter too) didn't subside until much later. Once I was able to contact friends and family via phone and Facebook, I was more calm. Glad to know that very few were injured by this event.
Oh, and I've coined a ([possibly) new term - PTES - Post Traumatic Earthquake Syndrome… Which I know I have… typing on my MacBook Pro, sitting on my couch, I still feel wobbles from time to time, and am freaked out by every passing truck. But I'm okay. I am joking about it with friends!
Columbia, SC - Sitting on the sofa with someone. They thought I was shaking the sofa. Lasted about a minute. - MMI الثالث
Armagh, Quebec, كندا - il y a eu forte secousse et on aimerais en savoir plus car en plus de la secousse ca la fait beaucoup de bruit et jai parler a des gens des village voisin et ils avaient eux aussi ressentit la secousse elle étais tellement forte que je me suis reveiller en sursaut et toute ma famille aussi et les gens que jai contacter aussi seulement a aucun poste de radio ni poste de televison ( les nouvelles) ( tva, lcn ) on aimerais que les nouvelles nous informe merci faites en sorte qu`il en parle au nouvelle merci !!! a la prochaine
Moseley, VA - I was on the computer on the second floor of my home and heard and felt what appeared to be a helicopter as we live under the path of military helicopters between bases. The vibration lasted about 10 ثانية, then I heard a roaring sound and I felt the room start shaking very heavily with a back and forth motion. The sound was extremly loud and I also could hear things falling off bookshelves and a glass vase shattering downstairs. I immediatly ran for the door frame and then proceded to get out of the house. That roaring sound I heard lasted well over a minute.
When It was all said and done, we had over two dozen cracks ranging from 2 inches to 3 and a half feet around door frames, walls and 4 cracks in the family room ceiling. Nothing other than the vase was ruined we just had to clean up a little. Out of the 20+ aftershocks I have only felt 3.
يوتيوب مباشرة











البلد والموقع 
 ?حيث تخبرنا في المواقع التي شعرت بالزلزال 



البريد الإلكتروني (إلا إذا كنت ترغب) 
 ?عنوان البريد الالكتروني قد يساعدنا اذا كنا طلب للحصول على تفاصيل إضافية حول تجربتك. هذا الحقل ليس إجباريا. الأمر متروك لكم لإعطاء ذلك أم لا.



MMI الثاني (ضعيف جدا تهتز) 
  ?الناس :يشعر به في بقية الأشخاص, في الطوابق العلوية أو وضعها بشكل إيجابي. 



MMI الثالث (ضعف يهز) 
  ?الناس : ورأى في الداخل; قد الكائنات معلقة تتأرجح, مشابهة لمرور الشاحنات الخفيفة الاهتزاز, ويمكن تقدير المدة, قد لا يتم الاعتراف بأنه زلزال. 



MMI الرابع (الهز الخفيف) 
  ?الناس :لاحظت عموما في الداخل ولكن ليس خارج. قد أيقظ ينامون قليلا. ويمكن تشبيه الاهتزاز لمرور حركة المرور الكثيفة, أو لهزة للجسم ثقيل سقوط او ضرب مبنى.
التجهيزات :الأبواب والنوافذ حشرجة الموت. الأواني الزجاجية والفخارية حشرجة الموت. قد تكون السوائل في الأوعية فتح منزعجة قليلا. قد يقف والسيارات الصخور.
الهياكل :الجدران وإطارات للمباني, والقواطع والأسقف المعلقة في المباني التجارية, قد تكون سمعت صرير ل. 



MMI الخامس (معتدل يهز) 
  ?الناس :ورأى عموما خارج, والجميع تقريبا في الداخل. معظم الذين ينامون ايقظ. قلة من الناس بالذعر.
التجهيزات :مشردون الأجسام الصغيرة غير المستقرة أو اضطراب. ويمكن تقسيم بعض الأواني الزجاجية والفخارية. صور معلقة على الحائط تدق. قد فتح الأبواب المتأرجحة. قد أبواب خزانة المضمون المصيد المغناطيسي المفتوح. الساعات البندول توقف, بداية, أو تغيير سعر.
الهياكل :تصدع بعض النوافذ شاشة العرض الكبيرة. متصدع ومواعيد المباريات القليلة المرحاض خزف.



MMI السادس (قوي يهز) 
  ?الناس
يشعر به كل. قلق الناس والحيوانات. تشغيل العديد من خارج. الصعوبة في المشي باطراد.
التجهيزات :سقوط الأشياء من الرفوف. صور من سقوط الجدران. نقل بعض الأثاث في الطوابق السلس, تحركت بعض غير المضمونين قائمة بذاتها المواقد. الأواني الزجاجية والفخارية المكسورة. انقلبت الأثاث غير مستقرة جدا. كنيسة ومدرسة صغيرة أجراس. الأجهزة تتحرك على مقاعد البدلاء أو قمم الجدول. خزائن لحفظ الملفات أو "من السهل تزلق" قد فتح الأدراج (أو إيقاف).
الهياكل :الأضرار التي لحقت المباني طفيف مع انخفاض مستوى. بعض الجص الجص أو الأسمنت يسقط. النوافذ المكسورة شاشة العرض الكبيرة. الأضرار التي لحقت المداخن المحلية القليلة ضعيفة, قد يكون بعض الخريف.
بيئة :الأشجار والشجيرات يهز, تسمع أو حفيف. ويمكن فكها المواد السائبة من الأرض المنحدرة, ز. القائمة الشرائح, المنحدرات الكاحل, لوحة خشبية الشرائح.



MMI السابع (قوي جدا هز) 
  ?الناسإنذار عام. شهدت صعوبة في الوقوف. لاحظت من قبل السائقين الذين قد وقف motorcar.
التجهيزات :رنين أجراس كبيرة. التحركات على الأرضيات والأثاث السلس, قد تتحرك على الأرض المفروشة بالسجاد. خسائر كبيرة لمحتويات المباني الهشة.
الهياكل :غير المدعومة الحجر والطوب الجدران المتشققة. انخفاض مستوى تصدع المباني مع بعض التعديلات طوب يقع. حالات قليلة من حدوث اضرار في المباني العادية من صنعة. Unbraced حواجز, unbraced الطوب الجملونات, والحلي المعمارية الخريف. تسقيف البلاط, قد يكون اندفاع وخاصة البلاط الحرف. العديد من مداخن المنازل بأضرار غير المدعومة, الوقوع في كثير من الأحيان من خط السقف. خزانات المياه النوع الأول انفجر. حالات قليلة من الأضرار التي لحقت القشرة القرميد والجص أو الأسمنت بطانات مقرها. اسطوانات الماء المقيد (المياه الساخنة اسطوانات) قد تحرك وتسرب. تصدع بعض النوافذ المشتركة. علقت السقوف المتضررة.
بيئة :المياه العكرة التي جعلت اثارة الطين. الشرائح الصغيرة مثل السقوط من الرمل والحصى البنوك, والصخور الصغيرة يسقط من المنحدرات الشديدة وقصاصات. حالات تسوية غير مجمعة أو الرطب, أو التربة الضعيفة. بعض الشقوق تظهر في الدقيقة الأرض المنحدرة. بضع حالات لتسييل (أنا. صغير المياه والرمال وقائع مشابهة).



MMI الثامن (الهز الشديد) 
  ?الناس
قد التنبيه نهج الذعر. التوجيهية للتأثر والسيارات.

الهياكل :
انخفاض مستوى المباني بأضرار جسيمة, انهيار بعض. صنعة المباني العادية التالفة, انهيار جزئي مع بعض. عززت البناء أو المباني الخرسانية التي تضررت في بعض الحالات. حالات قليلة من الأضرار التي لحقت بالمباني والجسور صممت وبنيت لمقاومة الزلازل. الملتوية الآثار والدبابات قبل 1976 وارتفاع مداخن المصنع أو أسقط. بعض لوحات البناء قبل 1965 بدأت أعمال الحفر التالفة. A - 1980 عدد قليل آخر من الطوب القشرة التالفة. أكوام الأخشاب التالفة من المنازل المتضررة. قد لا منازل المضمون أسس التحرك. مداخن المنازل تضررت معظم غير المدعومة, أدناه بعض سقف الخط, جلبت العديد من أسفل.

بيئة :
الشقوق تظهر على المنحدرات الشديدة والرطوبة في الارض. صغيرة على الشرائح المعتدلة في قصاصات على جوانب الطرق والحفريات غير معتمد. صغير المياه والرمال وقائع مشابهة المترجمة الوحشي المتاخمة لنشر الجداول, القنوات, البحيرات, الخ.



MMI التاسع (الهز العنيف) 
  ?الهياكل
العديد من المباني دمرت القياسية المنخفضة. المباني بأضرار بالغة الاتقان العادية, انهيار بعض. عززت البناء أو المباني بأضرار ملموسة, انهيار جزئي مع بعض. المباني والجسور صممت وبنيت لمقاومة الزلازل التي تضررت في بعض الحالات, بعض الإطارات مع مرونة بأضرار جسيمة. تلف أو تشوه دائم لبعض المباني والجسور, صممت وبنيت على معايير الاستخدام العادي. تحولت منازل للأسس التي لم يتم تأمين الخروج. الاغشيه سقوط الطوب وفضح الإطارات.

بيئة : 
تشقق الأرض واضح. ساحق عامة على المنحدرات. آثار تسييل مكثفة وأكثر انتشارا, مع الانتشار الأفقي كبيرة وتدفق تيارات المتاخمة للانزلاق, القنوات, البحيرات, الخ.



 
 



كتابة تجربتك و / أو النص إضافية هنا :  ?يرجى وصف ما لديك خبرة مع الكلمات الخاصة بك. وتقبل أيضا لغات أخرى. 








 







تعليقات الفيسبوك:



تعليقات 


Jeremy Balch وتقول: 

أغسطس 24, 2011 at 3:30 في


I felt earthquake over 750 miles away from epicenter all the way down in Fort Myers, FL in 33916 منطقة. I was in the shower when i felt what was like a slight swaying which was very subtle, and the tremor I felt even made my water flow to sputter a couple times. I didn’t at first even have a clue what I felt, but found out the scope of what happened later at 4pm on my local news. I was shocked. Quite a “SHAKY” situation that was. It made me think back to when there was a small rare quake in the Gulf of Mexico in 2006. And I thought that would be the last quake would feel since I live in Florida….


رد 








الكلام عقلك إلغاء الرد

اسم *
البريد الإلكتروني *
الموقع
 






الرجاء إدخال الرموز من الصورة








ترجمة
كما واللغة الافتراضية تحرير الترجمة
تلقي لدينا "جديد المقالات اليومية" النشرة الإخبارية + خبر عاجل الرئيسية - انقر للحصول على مثال

 
الوقت المنقضي منذ وقوع الزلزال الأحمر CatDat مشاركة :
48 أيام 5 ساعات 33 دقائق 32 ثانية






 الزلزال Report.com ملخص المقالات في موقعك ?
استخدامنا محتوى خاص القطعه - انقر هنا لمشاهدة مثال ورمز

مشاركة القطعة المشاركات حدثت
قوي جدا (عميق) زلزال سومطرة أدناه, أندونيسيا - 12 صبي عمره قتل في انهيار منزلقائمة الزلازل سبتمبر 6, 2011قائمة الزلازل سبتمبر 5, 2011 - زلزال قوي جدا تحت سومطرة فرجينيا الزلزال "وقد شعرت و" reports - 112 تقاريرقائمة الزلازل سبتمبر 4, 2011عمق الزلزال المدمر في فانواتو + هزة ارتدادية في سبتمبر 4/5سرب زلزال يضرب جمهورية التشيك / ألمانيا الحدود - سرب جديد في سبتمبر 4زلزال كولورادو / نيو مكسيكو, الولايات المتحدة الأمريكية - قدرت الأضرار : 100,000 دولار أمريكي + تلف الصورقائمة الزلازل سبتمبر 3, 2011 + زلزال هائل في فانواتوالأخبار المتعلقة الزلزال 2011-09-1سرب زلزال الألمانية - التشيكية المنطقة الحدودية. لمعرفة المزيد عن الزلزال 3 سبتمبرماذا يسافر أسرع من زلزال ? تخمين ...قائمة الزلازل سبتمبر 2, 2011 - المهم الزلازل في الاسكا والأرجنتينزلزال هائل على سفوح الاندساس جزر غير مأهولة في ألاسكاتوابع ولاية فرجينيا + 116 "وقد شعرت و" تقارير




فئة محددة RSS
 الزلازل القوية المدمرة يومية قائمة الزلازل أخبار يومية تتعلق الزلزال الزلازل والأضرار محدودة الزلازل Dangeropus حجم 6 أو أكثر الزلازل تأهب جميع الموادبواسطة نصائح والخدع
 أحدث المشاركات المنشورة

قائمة الزلازل سبتمبر 6, 2011
قوي جدا (عميق) زلزال سومطرة أدناه, أندونيسيا – 12 صبي عمره قتل في انهيار منزل
قائمة الزلازل سبتمبر 5, 2011 – زلزال قوي جدا تحت سومطرة
عمق الزلزال المدمر في فانواتو + هزة ارتدادية في سبتمبر 4/5
قائمة الزلازل سبتمبر 4, 2011
الأخبار المتعلقة الزلزال 2011-09-1
قائمة الزلازل سبتمبر 3, 2011 + زلزال هائل في فانواتو
ماذا يسافر أسرع من زلزال ? تخمين …
زلزال هائل على سفوح الاندساس جزر غير مأهولة في ألاسكا
قائمة الزلازل سبتمبر 2, 2011 – المهم الزلازل في الاسكا والأرجنتين
زلزال معتدل في أكبر منطقة لوس انجليس – الإبلاغ عن أي أضرار أو إصابات
توابع ولاية فرجينيا + 116 “وقد شعرت و” تقارير
البراكين النشطة في العالم من 24/08/2011 إلى 30/08/2011
قائمة الزلازل سبتمبر 1, 2011 + حجم 4.2 زلزال في منطقة لوس انجليس
حفر لفهم أسرار صدع سان أندرياس (فيديو)
قائمة الزلازل أغسطس 31, 2011
زلزال ضعيف ضحلة جدا يخيف وسط سان فرانسيسكو
قوي جدا “عميق” الزلزال في بحر باندا (تيمور الشرقية – أندونيسيا)
قائمة الزلازل أغسطس 30, 2011
آخر ثوران جبل إتنا الجميلة (إيطاليا) أغسطس 29 2011 + أشرطة الفيديو


شعبية المشاركات

قائمة الزلازل أغسطس 23, 2011
2 الزلازل, ضحل, كانوا خائفين في جارد وآرديش, فرنسا
اليابان توهوكو تسونامي والزلزال : ان عدد القتلى هو التسلق مرة أخرى!
زلزال كولورادو / نيو مكسيكو, الولايات المتحدة الأمريكية - قدرت الأضرار : 100,000 دولار أمريكي + تلف الصور
هائل 7+ الزلازل بالقرب من جزيرة فانواتو إيفات (أغسطس 20/21, 2011
قائمة الزلازل يوليو 25, 2011
توابع ولاية فرجينيا + 116 "هل شعرت أنه" تقارير
النشاط الزلزال أدناه هييرو ش (بركان), جزر الكناري, إسبانيا
زلزال قوي يهز جدا وخطيرة ولاية فرجينيا - نظرة عامة على الضرر
فيديو انفجار اليوم (أغسطس 20) بركان إتنا في (صقلية, إيطاليا) + الانفجارات الفيديو الأخرى







 
 
اتصل
     - الزلزال Report.com هو جزء من الزلازل SOS, زلزال إغاثة غير ربحية-  حقوق النشر  © 2011 ·  مدعوم من 123الفتح الإسلامي 
        · سجل في













