Gempa susulan Virginia + 116 “I Have Felt Ia” laporan

Laporan gempa bumiLaman laporan gempa bumi bebas terbaik di dunia
Kerosakan besar 2011
Kerosakan sederhana 2011
Penting 2010 Gempa

Christchurch 09/2010
Kraljevo, Serbia
Tsunami Indonesia


CATDAT 2010

Gempa Bumi merosakkan 2010
Volcanoes merosakkan 2010






Home
Perihal
Gempa bumi maut 2011

Christchurch, New Zealand 22/02
Yunnan, China 10/03
Tsunami Jepun 11/03
Tachilek, Myanmar 24/03
Lorca, Sepanyol 11/05
Sımav, Turki 19/05
Nabro gunung berapi, Eritrea 12/06
Christchurch, New Zealand 14/06
Kyrgyzstan / Uzbekistan 19/07


Kesediaan
Memahami …

Gempa bumi segi
Memahami …


Senarai, Berita, Negara-negara

Senarai dan Berita 2011
Artikel satu NEGARA


 


Gempa susulan Virginia + 116 “I Have Felt Ia” laporan
Last update: September 2, 2011 pada 4:35 pm by By Armand Vervaeck dan James Daniell 
September 1, 2011  By Armand Vervaeck dan James Daniell  
Newest update : many additional I Have Felt It reports
Gambaran keseluruhan gempa bumi : Weak  to moderate aftershocks are rattling the Virginia earthquake area. We do not expect any additional damage, but based on the Felt reports, the aftershocks are felt in a limited area around the Mineral / Louisa epicenter.
Baca juga :  Gempa bumi yang sangat kuat dan berbahaya mainan kerincingan Virginia – gambaran keseluruhan kerosakan
Baca juga :  Memahami Besarnya 5.8 Gempa bumi Virginia (Ogos 23, 2011)
Baca juga :  Gempa susulan Virginia + 116 “I Have Felt It” laporan
Baca juga : Pemilihan video gempa bumi Virginia oleh Gempa Bumi Report.com-
Baca juga : Apa yang bergerak lebih cepat daripada gempa bumi ? Meneka …
Kami meminta orang-orang yang telah merasakan gempa bumi ini untuk berkongsi maklumat dengan pembaca kami (juga dari kawasan anda). Sila use the "I Have Felt it" borang di bawah.
Direct epicenter area from the August 25 gempa susulan - Panoramio image courtesy: Idawriter
Update 01/09 – 05:09  PM Local time : 
M 3.4      2011/09/01 09:09     Kedalaman 4.9 km     VIRGINIA
	05:09:37 AM di pusat gempa bumi
One of the more powerful aftershocks.
	6 km (4 batu) SSE (156°) dari Mineral, VA and 13 km (8 batu) SE (125°) dari Louis, VA
Peta satelit kawasan pusat gempa bumi yang lebih besar
Felt reports from this aftershock :
Charlottesville, VA : 5:09di 8 seconds of light shaking – enough to rattle the windows, wake us, and the dogs.
Locust Grove, VA – Lasted approx 20 – 30 sec
Spotsylvania, VA – Felt like the house was going over rumble strips on the highway…berlangsung selama kira-kira 30 saat.
Scottsville, VA – Lasted perhaps 7 atau 8 saat.
New Canton, VA – I had just awoken and felt the house shake. There was a slight "boom" as if something had hit the house and then I heard the windowframes rattling and heard the rumble.  This is the 4th aftershock I have felt/heard at home since the quake last week.
Montpelier, VA – Awakened by loud rumbling sound.
Oldenburg, DALAM – I was in bed and it was shaking slightly–for what felt like a very long minute. I looked at my clock and saw it was 5:10 di (ER : Hard to believe as we speak of a distance to the epicenter of 400 batu!)
Cartersville, VA : We have been getting moderate shaking every night since the bigger Quake.They sound like train coal cars stopping, lots of banging the louder the bang the worst in the shaken of the house. It goes by with the loudest bang with a lifting or wave and then slowly the banging goes away in the distance ,like a train going down the train tracks.
Nelson, VA : Rattled my windows.
Richmond, VA : Pada kira-kira 5 am this morning, Sept 1, my husband and I woke up as our ceiling fan and windows were shaking for about 30 seconds.  It was pretty strong to wake us up but not enough for us to run out of the house.
Goochland County, VA : Felt quake around 5 am this morning. Had to straighten pictures on the wall again!
Petersburg, VA : Light berjabat
Alexandria, VA : Woke up to its effect of causing large mirror to fall and shatter in bathroom.
Manakin Sabot, VA : It was about 5:10 this morning…I woke up to my bed shaking and the house rattling. A very disturbing thing to wake up to!
Lake Monticello, VA : Awakened suddenly by fairly strong rumbling & shaking a little after 5 di. September 1, 2011.
Unionville, VA : My clock said 5:04 but its all the same.. loud rumble, lasted about half a minute or so and the shaking of the walls and floors last almost as long.. I heard the rumble a few seconds before i felt the house shake. So, i got up and checked on everyone and i was the only one who was woke up from the loud rumble.
So i went back to bed and said man i hope thats the end of it… That is the third one to wake me from a dead sleep. The one just before 1:00 am and the one the next morning just after 1:00 am last week were the first two to wake me up out of 3 times total. Now i just wish i knew it was the end of it! as i don't like them at night!! LOL.
Update 29/08 – 11:48  PM Local time :  Another aftershock going along with some light shaking has struck the Virginia earthquake area.  Epicenter on almost the same location than the mainshock, close to Mineral and Louisa.
	Magnitud : 2.6 @ Satu kedalaman 8.5 km. 48 km (29 batu) ESE of Charlottesville, Virginia and 56 km (34 batu) SW Fredericksburg, Virginia.
Felt report(dengan) :
Charlotteville, Akan : In Charlottesville near Pantops area, August 30th I felt another tremor around 11:20pm last night, August 29th…..berlangsung selama kira-kira 10 seconds.  Did anyone else feel it? – MMI III
Update 27/08 – 11:16  PM Local time :  A weak 2.7 magnitude aftershock struck the area at a depth of 5.1 km at 11:16 PM on August 27.  The epicenter was located closest to Louis dan Mineral dan 42 km dari Charlottesville, VA
Felt Reports from this aftershock :
Orange, VA – I felt a very weak aftershake in Gordonsville, Orange County, VA, at around 11:30 or so. Gordonsville is located only a short distance from Mineral which was the epicenter of last week's earthquake, and I have felt several aftershakes since then. Every time there is an aftershake, I can hear the underground explosion, but the sound is extremely low. I think we also had an aftershake earlier this evening, though I am not 100% sure. I am, Walau bagaimanapun, positive that we had an aftershake at 11:30 here in Gordonsville. Even my cat reacted visibly to it. – MMI III
Fluvanna, VA – MMI VI Strong shaking indicated. (ER : Fluvanna is situated approx. 20 km dari pusat gempa bumi yang)
Fluvanna, VA – Pada kira-kira 11:10 pm. Sunday the 28th. We are real close to Louisa County Virginia.  Perihal 2 miles south of US 250 east . Two tremors back to back
Update : So far we have received I Have Felt It reports with a max. sederhana berjabat (MMI V), which corresponds with the theoretical USGS values. A V MMI is described as a moderate shaking with possible light damage at vulnerable buildings. Light damage is like cracks in walls, fallen tiles, dll.
Update : Aftershocks likes this one are perfectly normal after a 5.9 gempa bumi. Occasionally an isolated 5+ quake might be possible too. A greater aftershock than the initial 5.9 is also possible, but the chance on it is very exceptional.
Update :  Based on the many Felt reports we are receiving we do expect at max. some additional minimal damage within a radius of 5 km dari pusat gempa bumi yang (which means Cuckoo alone).
Update : Epicenter of the earthquake below Cuckoo and approx. 8 km from Mineral
Update : according to the theoretical calculations of USGS the maks. Felt experience will be a moderate shaking : Dalam MMI
"I Have Felt Ia" laporan
	MMI nilai-nilai (jika ditunjukkan) selepas teks (III: Gegaran lemah, Light IV berjabat, V Sederhana berjabat, VI gegaran Strong, VII goncangan yang sangat kuat)
Virginia - i WAS SITTING DOWNSTAIRS WHEN i HEARD THE SAME NOISE i HEARD THE 23 WHEN THE OTHER QUAKE KIT THEN MY DAUGHTER ASKED IF i FELT THE HOUSE SHAKE AGAIN? mY WIFE SAID SHE ALSO FELT IT SHAKE – MMI III
Maryland - I was just about to fall asleep when I heard everything on my shelves shaking and then began to feel it. It was all too firmiliar considering it just happened here 2 days ago. – MMI IV
Culpeper, Virginia – 1:08di, Thursday 25 aug 2011 light aftershock in Culpeper, Virginia – MMI III
Arlington, VA – Getting to be an expert on what an earthquake feels like!  This occurred at about 1:05 PM. – MMI III
Charlottesville va – 1:08 di  shaking for approx 15 sec…   not as bad as a few days ago but fairly scarry.  My dog howled before I noticed it. – MMI IV
Dale City (Woodbridge) – Pada kira-kira 1:10 A.M. on 08/25/2011 light aftershock felt in Dale City (Woodbridge), berlangsung selama kira-kira  five seconds. – MMI III
Burke, VA – At around 1:10 AM on August 25, 2011 – MMI III
Virginia - it felt like an after shock from the earthquake on the 23rd august. – III
Palmyra, Virginia – mild aftershock from 8/23/11 – IV
Thornburg, VA – Light shaking indicated  – MMI IV
Falls Church, VA – Bed shook, heard walls crack the way they do when there are strong winds. Did not see any reactions from our rabbit(who lives indoors). – IV
Virginia, – 1 am August 25 felt a weak shaking in northern virginia – MMI III
Fredericksburg, VA – Just felt an aftershock about an hour ago in Fredericksburg, VA while on the phone with my son in Afghanistan. Around 1:00 a.m. 8-25-11. – MMI V
Wheaton, MD – I felt an aftershock about 45 minutes ago in Wheaton, MD. – III
Richmond, Virginia – Pada 1:09 a.m. on August 25, 2011, I felt my entire house shake for approximately 5-10 saat. Two minutes later, I felt some very weak tremors. – MMI IV
Virginia - me and my family wher upstairs and suddenly right when we put the lights out id say about a moderate earthquake hit us for about 10 seconds we all went downstairs and regrouped id say it was lighter than the 5.9 that hit the east coast on the 23rd or 24th – MMI V
Washington, DC – Just about to fall off to sleep. Awaken by bed shaking (not in a good way either). This aftershock lasted longer than Tuesday's initial earthquake too. This was a rumble feeling that shook my whole house….and I now need a Valium….atau 3. – MMI IV
Fredericksburg, VA – I was sitting in the upstairs part of my house and there was significant shaking, as well i happened to be looking out the window at the time and my cat freaked out before it started. – IV
Fredericksburg, VA – Just felt an aftershock about an hour ago in Fredericksburg, VA while on the phone with my son in Afghanistan. Around 1:00 a.m. 8-25-11. – MMI V
Nellysford, Akan – cahaya berjabat – MMI IV
Stafford, Virginia – Aug. 25ke, just after 1:00di, Heard noise and then felt my chair shaking back & forth. Didn't last long, and my family seems to have slept through it. – III
PA, – Dozing on the couch in my living room in SW PA w/my cat.  Felt "something" just shake the house rapidly.  Woke up & scared the hell out of both of us.  Thought someone had hit the house and/or was trying to break in.  After ascertaining that everything was ok & no one trying to break in, checked the laptop & sure enough VA was hit w/an aftershook. – MMI IV
Mount Sidney, VA – I was watching television. The clock read 1:10 di. It was less intense than the original quake, but the vibration frequency was about the same. It was just strong enough to shake a DVD off the top of the DVD player. The ceiling fan shook slightly. Two kids and a wife in bed, they didn't feel a thing. – MMI V
Mineral, Akan – Was real short, but felt rather violent.  Not sustained like the main earthquake.  Was like a 2 sec. heavy shake or more like a jump feeling for me, like i bounced up outta my couch, then just the dull roar sound with minimal vibration as if bass speakers were maxed – MMI IV
Melfa, VA – I was at work and felt a strong shake.  Everything on the counter rattled and fell in the floor.  It was hard to keep your balance. Everyone looked at me after it was over and all I could say was "I DIDN'T DO IT!" After work my fiance' and I returned home to find that all pictures on the wall and and lamps were in the floor. – VI
Vienna, VA – Pada kira-kira 1:07di, I felt a light shaking that last 5 seconds while lying on couch-I knew it was an earthquake right away.  The dog became very restless and nervous afterwards. IV
Annandale, Va -  I was watching TV in a second floor bedroom, felt an initial slight jolt and immediately knew what it was.  Could feel the chair vibrating and could hear a rattling noise from vibrating furniture and/or other objects in the room.  I Put my hand on side of the dresser and could definitely feel vibrations coming up through the floor.  It lasted at least 20 saat; definitely not a normal occurrence! It happened about 1:08 untuk 1:10 PM, 25 Aug., 2011. – IV
Stafford, VA -  iwas playing my DSi when all of a sudden i heard a vibrating noise… then the house lightly shook for about 5-10 seconds and iwas thinking, "please, not again…" but then it stopped. yay. :p -  MMI III
Lynchburg, Virginia – Felt aftershock at 1:09am House shook  was on second floor of house and the chair I was in moved up and down.  Was like the floor was bowing up and down. Lasted about 15/20 sec.   This one was stronger than the first aftershock we had yesterday. – IV
Bethesda, MA – Felt this one too, my watch showed 1:09 AM EST by the time tremors ended. Felt it all, just like the one on Tuesday, as I was sitting in my bed, working on the laptop, just as Tuesday. Considering earthquakes are not very common for this area, was pretty scary. The noise of the windows vibrating here in the house was creepy, both earlier and on Tuesday … One of the 2 cats started miaowing aggresively right after the quake. – Dalam
Towson, MD – I felt week shaking about 1:10 am Thursday 8/25/2011.  I was laying in bed. It was for few seconds, was going to wake up everybody in the  house as I realized what it was but then it stopped – III
Palmyra, VA – Woke just after 1am on Thursday, Aug 25 to moderate shaking – heard the house crack like in strong winds first.  No apparent damage, just a little movement of some items.  – MMI V
Philadelphia, PA -  was about to fall asleep when I felt the bed shake in a wave motion and items on a wall shelf were rattling.  Perihal 10 saat, time 1:17am.  Very strange feeling – Dalam
Falls Church , VA – I was laying in bed and the shaking woke me up a little after 1am today, Thursday, Ogos 25, 2011 -  Dalam
Amelia Court House, VA – Just a few minutes after 1:00 AM I awoke to bed shaking, heard some clinking (probably dishes in sink).  Our dogs were whinning, so got out of bed and felt a few slight waves of movement – IV
Virginia, ?? – I was in bed reading approximately 1:10 am.  My husband was asleep beside me.  When the house started rattling I thought, "Oh boy…again?" It didn't last more three-five seconds but I asked Ken, "Did you feel it?  We just had another quake."  I woke him, the tremor did not.  Glad to know that others felt it also and my imagination wasn't working overtime! – IV
McLean, VA – Light shaking indicated – MMI IV
	Maryland, Aspen Hill - Sitting in my living room around 1am, I felt light trembling similar to what we experienced July 2010 when a 3.4 magnitude tremor occurred with epicenter about 20 miles from my house.  Sounded like a large truck speeding by but I live on a narrow side street that would not have that type of traffic that time of night – III
Richmond, Virginia – I felt the aftershock of the earthquake early this morning; I watched as my iron danced about half an inch from its original position on my ironing board in my room. The picture frames shook too, but there was no damage to anything. It sounded like a caravan of 18-wheeler trucks drove by right outside the window. I thought it was another earthquake, because I could feel it shaking from deep within my chest, which does not occur when a truck or something big goes by. My roommate, who was down the hall, didn't feel anything – III
Lanexa, VA -  Pada kira-kira 1:05am we felt the whole house shake with some items falling off of a she'll in the bedroom. It lasted maybe 10 or so seconds – Dalam
Virginia 22920 – 1:12 am awakened by shaking and noise.  duration of about 15 saat – III
Maryland - Not able to sleep, my 14 year old son and I felt a significant earthquake around 1:15 a.m. this morining, 8/25/2011 – MMI V
Frederick, Maryland – I was sleeping at the time, and i was awaken by feeling that something violently threw my head back i was quite scared and i did not know what it was until this morning – VII
Columbia, MD – Just falling asleep at about 1:00am last night (Aug 25, 2011) when the floors started creaking and we thought someone might be in our house. Then other items started shaking too and we knew it must be an aftershock from the Mineral, VA earthquake 2 days ago. We've read that this aftershock was a 4.8 and located close the original epicenter – Dalam
Eldersburg, MD – I was awakened on 5/24 at approx 12:45 a.m. and on 5/25 at approx. 1:07 a.m. by the rattle of the doors on an old stand in my bedroom.  I did not feel any shaking in the bed, just heard the rattle of the doors that woke me up. I have lived in this house 16 years and never experienced such rattle.  III: Weak Shaking
Bethesda, MA – Felt this one too, my watch showed 1:09 AM EST by the time tremors ended. Felt it all, just like the one on Tuesday, as I was sitting in my bed, working on the laptop, just as Tuesday. Considering earthquakes are not very common for this area, was pretty scary. The noise of the windows vibrating here in the house was creepy, both earlier and on Tuesday … One of the 2 cats started miaowing aggresively right after the quake. – Dalam
Towson, MD – I felt week shaking about 1:10 am Thursday 8/25/2011.  I was laying in bed. It was for few seconds, was going to wake up everybody in the  house as I realized what it was but then it stopped. – III
Monroe, Va – Woke me up, Strong aftershock felt about 1:08 a.m. in Monroe, Va. for a couple of seconds.
Baltimore, MD – I was finally drifting to sleep after 24 hours of sleeplessness and suddenly jolted awake as the bed shook and several things in my bedroom moved across their shelves. In other parts of our home small items were out of place or knocked over. Not nearly as bad as Tuesday's quake but I certainly won't be sleeping well for a while… – IV
Apple Grove, VA – Harap 3 miles from the epicenter.  Before the quake there were 2 light, short tremors.  One around midnight, the next just a few minutes before – Dalam
White Oak, Montgomery County, MD – I was awakened at 1:08 am by light-to-moderate shaking, and realized immediately that we were experiencing an aftershock.  I was not in the same location (my bed) when the original quake occurred, so I cannot compare the two events (in fact, I was walking around downtown Rockville, MD, and didn't detect it at all), Walau bagaimanapun, the intensity and duration of this event was slighty less than what I felt last year when I was also awakened from sleep by an earthquake which was centered in Germantown, MD. – IV
Mineral VA – I was a sleep and the house started shaking and rumbling again.  It was about 1:06 di, will this soon stop? – MMI VI (Strong Shaking)
Lynchburg, VA – At a little after 1:00 am I was awakened by my shaking bed and pictures and a slight rumble.  I thought "here we go again!"  Scary….. – IV
Lynchburg, VA – Awakened just after 1 AM Thursday a.m. by shaking and by very strange house sounds…nothing I can liken to anything I've heard in the house before (and I wasn't at home for the Tuesday afternoon quake).  Shaking was continuous but house sounds came in several waves over several seconds.  At its peak, I also heard a noise from outside…possibly our deck rattling – Dalam
Reston, VA – 1:07 am August 25, 2011 – same sound and shaking for about 10 saat – Dalam
Alexandria, VA – 1:08 AM Thursday, August 25.  The house-shaking-noise was minor this time, but I felt the movement under my feet as I was sitting at my computer.  The dogs did not react this time at all, but it was still unsettling (it lasted quite awhile). – IV
Bumpass, VA – I live just outside the epicenter area and last night i woke up at 1:08 to my house shaking.. it felt like how a cheap hotel would shake as a train goes by. it was strong enough to wake me but not major. basically just vibrated my house. – IV-V
Stafford - Woke me up at about 1:08.  Everyone else slept through it – Dalam
Amherst, Viginia – IV MMI indicated (cahaya berjabat)
Arlington, VA – kira-kira 1.14 am I feel shaking and ratteling in the house, Alexandra – MMI IV
Prince William County, Manassas, VA – I was asleep.  I felt the bed shaking.  My husband woke me up and told me we had just experienced an aftershock.  I think it lasted about 5 saat (very brief). – IV
College Park, MD – I got up at around 1:00am to feed my grandson and felt what I thought was a large truck passing by but the shaking became stronger and my home began to shake, I knew then it was an earthquake.  Ia hanya bertahan beberapa saat  – MMI IV
Woodbridge, VA – I woke up to slight shaking at 1:08 di. Yang berlangsung kira-kira 15 saat- time for me to wake up, get out of bed, and move to my door – IV
Mineral, VA – I live 3 miles from the center of that aftershock and I thought tt wasn't as long as bad as the 4.2 from the night before.  It is all the little rumbling all night long that makes it interesting. – MMI V
Stafford VA – I heard a long (maybe 30 saat) low steady rumbling at 12:45. My time seems to be off from everyone else so I am wondering if I am wrong? It was either an aftershock or Marine Base Quantico doing some sort of bombing at that time of the morning, which I doubt. I got up to look around – nothing shaking, just vibrating with this low rumbling. It lasted too long to be a low flying plane or truck rumbling by, so I guess aftershock – III
Fredericksburg, Va -  I was sleeping and woke up because of the shaking. Definitely not as strong as a few days ago, but enough to wake me up. I sat up and looked at my phone, it was 1:10di – MMI III
Toano Virginia – I noticed rattling while laying in bed then heard my closet doors rattle and felt the bed shake around 1:10 – Dalam
Falmouth, Virginia – Felt shaking 1:09 di, ceiling fans and overhead light rattling, bots slept through it – IV
Richmond VA – I was sitting on the couch watching TV, and everything sorta vibrated for about 20 saat, It felt similar to the first one to me, although I was outside the first time….around 1am – IV
Tappahannock VA – We felt the aftershock it rattled our ceilings
Cockeysville/Hunt Valley, Maryland – I was in bed and it was exactly 1:09 a.m August 25th.  It woke me up and there appeared to be lines running across the TV.    But i sure felt it. I looked at the clock for the time.  It did not last as long as the Earthquake on Tuesday, Aug. 23rd – MMI VI
Fredericksburg, Akan – I was sleeping and woke up because of the shaking. Definitely not as strong as a few days ago, but enough to wake me up. I sat up and looked at my phone, it was 1:10di – III
Triangle, VA – MMI IV = light shaking
Rockville, MD – Watching TV in bed when room started to shake for about 5-10 seconds at 1:09di. Nothing too crazy – MMI IV
Roanoke, VA – Ogos 25, 2011–1:09 di–was in bed and the bed swayed for a couple of seconds. – IV
Green Bay VA – I was sitting on my couch watching tv around 1am and the house started shaking. Unlike the initial quake this one made the dishes in my cabinets rattle. It lasted maybe 20-30 seconds but didn't wake anyone else in the house up. This one was quieter than the initial one as well. There was an aftershock or something a few hours after the one on the 23rd but even though everyone was awake nobody felt it but me and my dogs. I barely even felt it. – III
Bumpass, VA – 11:27 am felt short aftershock about 4 saat….just want it to stop. We are just a few short miles from Mineral, where our kids attend school. Still unsettling! – MMI IV
Roanoke, Virginia -  I woke up to use the bathroom at 1:00 am on 5/25…just as I started to drift back to sleep I heard our windows begin to rattle loudly and the noticed the bed shaking.  The tremor only lasted for about 3 atau 5 seconds.  My husband adn 3 year old both slept through it.  I also had a 6 year old student that was knocked out of his bed last night by the aftershock. – MMI V
Crystal City, VA – Slight aftershock at 1:08di, 1:14, dan 1:20am.  House made sounds like with a strong wind blowing. Nothing fell off shelfs as they did during earthquake.  Getting kind of stressed over it. Not moving to West coast! – III
MD - Woke up at about 1 AM by my beagle whimpering and digging at her crate. Shaking started afterward – Dalam
Clifton, Virginia – Our family was sleeping around 1:00 satu:m.  I awoke to the bed shaking and instantly knew it was an aftershock. My husband felt it as well. Our children said they were not awakened by it.  It was not anywhere close to what we experienced on Tuesday but I would describe it as light to moderate shaking.  I'm sure it would have seemed greater if you were awake and standing or sitting rather than lying down when it occurred. – Dalam
Mineral VA – Crazy Like the beginning of the 5.9 but stopped much quicker! Thank goodness – Dalam
Alexandria, VA – Last night, just after 1 a.m., I was awoken by shaking. It felt like a train was going by the house. I woke up my husband and told him I thought we were experiencing an aftershock. He said I was crazy and told me to go back to sleep. Of course, as usual, I was right. – Dalam
East Greenbush, NY -  MMI III (gegaran lemah) indicated.
Gettysburg, PA – I was on a horseback tour of the Gettysburg National Battlefield at 1:10 pm today (Ogos 25) when my horse and at least three in front of me all stumbled (on flat ground) at the same time.  I was wondering if it was because of an aftershock of the Mineral, VA quake.  Thanks. – MMI III
Arlington VA – A little after 1 am I was lying in bed upstairs in a two story house in northwest Arlington, reading.  Heard a low hum and then felt light to moderate shaking, doors rattling gently in door frames, bed rocking very slightly–much like a train were going by a few houses away.  Not sure how long it went on, but more than 5 seconds.  Did not wake my husband or son. – IV
Culpeper, VA – yo estaba acostada en mi coma cuando de repente empeso a bibrrar muy rapido y pense q era la labadora pero me quede pensando yo no estoy labando y de repente empeso a moberse toda la casa y lo unico q se me bino en mente esq era un tenblor senti muvho miedo por mis hijos.
Athens, GA – Woke up to windows rattling at 5:30 PM, Friday, Ogos 26, 2011 in Athens – MMI III
Lorton, VA -  I laying in bed reading and thought I felt the wind shaking the townhouse, then realized it was another earthquake.  My son was in
the other room, but said he did not feel anything. Yang berlangsung kira-kira 10 saat. – MMI IV
Burke, Virginia – I was in the living room when the aftershock happened. My family members who were asleep didn't really notice it. – MMI III
Erie, Pa – We are in the second story of a office building and one of the plants started shaking and then you could hear the filing cabinets squeaking against eachother. Most people in our office didnt feel it unless they were touching their desks or some other big object. Just before 11am for about 20 saat. – MMI III
Ashland, Va – On 23rd I was in Richmond, Va. at Krogers. I started my car because it was so hot and put my groceries in. I noticed that the car was shaking like it had an engine problem and my only worry was "how I was going to fix it". No thought of an erthquake. But on 8/25 at a few minutes after 1:00AM I was at the computer when my chair began to shake and the fax machine(which was not on) began to do it's thing. It was really scary.
Was it an aftershock or another earthquake? (Definitely an aftershock ER)
Greenville, MI – My little terrier was sleeping between my wife and I, when at approximately 1am, she began to whimper and yip quietly, waking me up.  I tried to calm her, thinking she needed to go out, perhaps.  She kept up this behavior for almost ten minutes, then settled down and went back to sleep.  In the meantime, I began to feel my bed vibrate lightly, then growing stronger to the point where I could feel it actually trembling, then subduing over the course of about two minutes.  I awoke my wife, but she had felt nothing.  Keesokan harinya, the news mentioned an aftershock had occurred early that morning.  I can only assume that is what I felt. – MMI III
Fredericksburg, VA – I woke up to the house shaking.  The windows rattled and some CD's fell off the shelf.  This was quicker than the first one. – MMI VI
Lynchburg, VA – Sounded like wind was picking up, walls started making creaking noises, bed started rocking. – MMI III
Arlington VA  – A little after 1 am I was lying in bed upstairs in a two story house in northwest Arlington, reading.  Heard a low hum and then felt light to moderate shaking, doors rattling gently in door frames, bed rocking very slightly–much like a train were going by a few houses away.  Not sure how long it went on, but more than 5 seconds.  Did not wake my husband or son. – MMI IV
Madison Heights, VA – kira-kira 1:00 am ish heard strange noise, like train rumbling, lasting 15-30 secs, dogs down street started barking prior to rumbling sound, just an eerie feeling, house made noises like settling ceiling made cracking sounds, walls made noises. The train sound is common, since trains hook up in lynchburg everyday, assuming is not always what it is.
Columbia, SC – Duduk di atas sofa dengan seseorang. Mereka fikir saya bergoncang sofa. Lasted about a minute. – MMI III
Ashland Virginia – Sitting on the couch after dinner I heard rumbling and shaking. My attention turned to the window and it crossed my mind what if then I remembered that a train amtrack runs through thye center of Ashland.Virginia. It crossed my mind that it was an aftershock but I thought probably the train and would I ever get over the fear of a Earthquake every time I heard a train always listning for the whistle is now a constant reassuring sound I lookout for . Resigned to the fact that it was a train I put it out of my mind and went about watching a show on TV. So it really wasnt a surprise that I found out from my friend we had a aftershock and I guessed it was about a 4 pretty lucky guess it was a 4.5 I am getting pretty good at guessing the Richter scale,Earthquakes and a Hurricane all in one week do I dare ask what next? well it all could of been much worse but prayers going out to all the peopke adversly affected. We just have to be prepared these days for any thing and make sure we don't take anything or those close to us for granted. – MMI V
Reston, VA – 4 AM in Reston, VA. A/C is off, & I am the only one up. Definitely felt house shaking–still feeling it. Long time this time. Subtle, but present – MMI IV
Gempa Bumi Data yang paling penting:
	Magnitud : 4.5
	Masa UTC : Thursday, Ogos 25, 2011 pada 05:07:50 UTC
	Waktu tempatan di pusat gempa bumi : Thursday, Ogos 25, 2011 pada 01:07:50 AM di pusat gempa bumi
	Kedalaman (Hypocenter) : 5 km
	Lokasi geografi(dengan) :
	51 km (31 batu) E Charlottesville, Virginia
	58 km (36 batu) NW- Richmond, Virginia
 
Pautan peta penting
USGS Adakah Anda Rasa Ia Peta
Google satellite map kawasan yang menunjukkan jenis rupa bumi gempa bumi berlaku
USGS Berjabat peta
USGS bersejarah gempa bumi peta
USGS bahaya peta Seismik
QuakeSOS   dan QuakeSOS free adalah aplikasi iPhone dibangunkan oleh Armand Vervaeck, pengasas Laporan Gempa Bumi. Permohonan memudahkan komunikasi kumpulan serta-merta kepada kawan-kawan dan ahli keluarga (dengan lokasi GPS anda yang tepat) dan menyusu dengan pengguna dengan berita Laporan Gempa Bumi. The 0.99 AS $ QuakeSOS   versi akan menyokong aktiviti-aktiviti Gempa Bumi SOS.
satu 
Report.com tajuk berita gempa bumi di Twitter
@ OnlyQuakeNews : Dapatkan semua tajuk utama artikel gempa bumi report.com kami + kemas kini yang teratur mengenai peristiwa yang berterusan
@ QuakeSOS : berita gempa bumi-report.com + gempa bumi pemberitahuan automatik USGS gempa bumi M 4.0 atau lebih tinggi dengan penekanan kepada gempa bumi di Amerika dan sfera Lautan Pasifik (4 and up) dan banyak negara lain di dunia (5 anddan sehinggaAkaun ini dicipta hanya untuk QuakeSOS dan QuakeSOS kami   permohonan bawah
@ ShakingEarth : berita gempa bumi-report.com + gempa bumi pemberitahuan secara automatik gempa bumi EMSC M 4.0 atau lebih tinggi dengan penekanan kepada gempa bumi di Eropah dan Asia / Timur Tengah sfera (4 and up) dan banyak negara lain di dunia (5 anddan sehinggaAkaun ini pada asalnya dicipta untuk merangsang kami Akaun Facebook
@ QuakeMaps : berita gempa bumi report.com dengan pemberitahuan pemetaan M SEMUA gempa bumi 3.0 dan lebih tinggi dari seluruh dunia melalui EMSC dan USGS. Akaun ini dicipta hanya untuk http kami://laman web www.quake-maps.com
Saya telah merasainya – Saya berasa – Το penekananκανα αισθsνεται – Saya minta maaf – 我的确感到了 – 私はそれを感じていました- Saya rasa ia – Bunu hissediSaya berasaa tidak merasakan bahawa









Negara dan lokasi 
 ?Beritahu kami di mana di mana lokasi anda merasakan gempa bumi 



E-mail (hanya jika anda ingin) 
 ?Alamat E-mel Anda mungkin membantu kita jika kita meminta untuk maklumat tambahan mengenai pengalaman anda. Bidang ini adalah wajib. Terpulang kepada anda untuk memberi atau tidak.



MMI II (Sangat lemah berjabat) 
  ?People :Yang dirasai oleh orang-orang di lain, di tingkat atas atau menggalakkan diletakkan. 



MMI III (Gegaran lemah) 
  ?People : Dirasai dalam bangunan; tergantung objek boleh swing, getaran yang sama untuk kelulusan trak ringan, tempoh boleh dianggarkan, tidak boleh diiktiraf sebagai gempa bumi. 



MMI IV (Light berjabat) 
  ?People :Secara umumnya perasan dalam rumah tetapi tidak di luar. Light tidur mungkin akan dikejutkan. Getaran boleh disamakan dengan kelulusan lalu lintas berat, atau sentakan objek berat jatuh atau menyerang bangunan.
Kelengkapan :Pintu dan tingkap mengobrol terus-menerus. Barangan kaca dan pinggan mangkuk mengobrol terus-menerus. Cecair dalam saluran terbuka mungkin sedikit terganggu. Kereta Tetap boleh rock.
Struktur :Dinding dan kerangka bangunan, dan partition dan siling yang digantung dalam bangunan komersil, boleh didengar untuk berderak. 



MMI V (Sederhana berjabat) 
  ?People :Secara umumnya dirasai di luar, dan oleh dalam rumah semua orang hampir. Kebanyakan tidur dikejutkan. Satu orang beberapa cemas.
Kelengkapan :Kecil objek yang tidak stabil telah teranjak atau marah. Beberapa barangan kaca dan pinggan mangkuk boleh dipecahkan. Tergantung gambar mengetuk dinding. Pintu terbuka boleh swing. Pintu almari yang dijamin oleh tangkapan magnet boleh membuka. Jam bandul berhenti, mula, atau perubahan kadar.
Struktur :Beberapa tingkap paparan besar retak. Lekapan tandas beberapa tembikar retak.



MMI VI (Kukuh berjabat) 
  ?People
Dirasai oleh semua. Orang-orang dan haiwan cemas. Jangka Ramai di luar. Kesukaran yang dialami dalam berjalan dengan mantap.
Kelengkapan :Objek jatuh dari rak. Pictures jatuh dari dinding. Perabot Beberapa bergerak di atas lantai licin, beberapa tidak bercagar pendiangan berdiri bebas bergerak. Barangan kaca dan pinggan mangkuk pecah. Perabot Sangat tidak stabil terbalik. Gereja kecil dan loceng sekolah cincin. Alat-alat bergerak di puncak bangku atau meja. Filing kabinet atau "mudah meluncur" laci boleh membuka (atau mematikan).
Struktur :Sedikit kerosakan kepada bangunan dengan standard rendah. Beberapa plaster stuko atau simen jatuh. Paparan tingkap yang besar dipecahkan. Kerosakan kepada beberapa cerobong lemah dalam negeri, beberapa mungkin akan jatuh.
Alam Sekitar :Pokok-pokok dan semak goncang, atau didengar berdesir. Bahan longgar mungkin dipaksa keluar daripada tanah landai, g. sedia ada slaid, lereng lereng, sirap slaid.



MMI VII (Sangat kuat berjabat) 
  ?PeoplePenggera am. Kesukaran yang dialami dalam kedudukan. Dikesan oleh pemandu-pemandu kereta yang boleh menghentikan.
Kelengkapan :Besar loceng gelang. Perabot bergerak di atas lantai licin, boleh bergerak ke atas lantai berkarpet. Kerosakan yang banyak kepada kandungan rapuh bangunan.
Struktur :Batu dan bata tanpa tetulang dinding retak. Bangunan standard rendah yang retak dengan masonry beberapa kanak-kanak jatuh. Satu contoh beberapa kerosakan kepada bangunan hasil kerja biasa. Unbraced parapets, unbraced bata Gables, dan perhiasan seni bina jatuh. Atap genting, terutama jubin rabung boleh dipaksa keluar. Banyak cerobong domestik tanpa tetulang rosak, selalu jatuh dari bumbung garis-. Jenis tangki Air saya pecah. A beberapa contoh kerosakan kepada veneers bata dan plaster atau lapisan simen-. Air silinder tidak terkawal (silinder panas-air) boleh bergerak dan bocor. Beberapa tingkap biasa yang retak. Digantung siling rosak.
Alam Sekitar :Air keruh oleh dikacau sehingga lumpur. Slaid kecil seperti terjatuh pasir dan bank-bank kelikir, kecil dan batu jatuh dari cerun curam dan keratan. Contoh penyelesaian tak kukuh atau basah, atau tanah yang lemah. Sesetengah retak halus muncul di dalam tanah landai. A beberapa contoh daripada pencairan (i. air kecil dan ejections pasir).



MMI VIII (Teruk berjabat) 
  ?People
Penggera boleh pendekatan panik. Pemandu-kereta yang terkesan.

Struktur :
Rendah bangunan Piawaian rusak berat, kemusnahan. bangunan mutu kerja biasa rosak, beberapa dengan keruntuhan sebahagian. Masonry Bertetulang atau bangunan konkrit yang rosak dalam beberapa kes. Satu contoh beberapa kerosakan kepada bangunan dan jambatan yang direka bentuk dan dibina untuk menahan gempa bumi. Tugu Peringatan dan pra-1976 kereta kebal tinggi dan cerobong kilang berpintal atau dibawa turun. Beberapa masonry panel pra-1965 infill rosak. A post-1980 beberapa veneers bata yang rosak. Timbunan kayu reput rumah rosak. Rumah yang tidak bercagar kepada asas boleh bergerak. Cerobong domestik yang tanpa tetulang rosak, beberapa di bawah bumbung-line, banyak menumbangkan.

Alam Sekitar :
Retak muncul pada cerun curam dan di bawah tanah basah. Kecil untuk slaid sederhana dalam keratan tepi jalan dan penggalian yang tidak disokong. Air yang kecil dan ejections pasir dan sisi setempat yang menyebarkan bersebelahan dengan aliran, terusan, tasik, dll.



MMI IX (Ganas berjabat) 
  ?Struktur
Banyak bangunan standard rendah dihapuskan. Mutu kerja bangunan biasa yang rusak berat, kemusnahan. Masonry Bertetulang atau bangunan konkrit yang rosak, beberapa dengan keruntuhan sebahagian. Bangunan dan jambatan yang direka dan dibina untuk menahan gempa bumi yang rosak dalam beberapa kes, beberapa bingkai dengan fleksibel yang rosak teruk. Kerosakan atau herotan kekal kepada beberapa bangunan dan jambatan, direka bentuk dan dibina untuk kegunaan biasa. Rumah yang tidak bercagar kepada asas-asas beralih off. Veneers bata jatuh dan mendedahkan bingkai.

Alam Sekitar : 
Cracking-alasan yang mudah dilihat. Landsliding umum pada cerun curam. Kesan pencairan dipergiat dan lebih meluas, dengan sisi besar merebak dan aliran gelongsor bersebelahan ke sungai, terusan, tasik, dll.



 
 



Tulis pengalaman anda dan / atau teks tambahan di sini :  ?Sila huraikan apa yang anda telah mengalami dengan kata-kata anda sendiri. Bahasa-bahasa lain juga diterima. 








 







Facebook comments:



Comments 


Lake Monticello Virginia berkata: 

September 1, 2011 pada 6:12 pm


Lake Monticello, Virginia: A little after 5 di. September 1, 2011 – awakened by the now familiar slow rumble getting louder and louder as well as shaking lasting a few seconds – not sure exactly how to get used to this.


Jawab 



Mary Meyer berkata: 

September 1, 2011 pada 2:06 pm


I know you find it hard to believe I felt it in Indiana, but that’s what was so….gentle rocking and noticing the time 5:10 and then reading that an aftershock happened at 5:09. When the 1st one happened on 8/23, people felt it near my area and even further west though I can’t say I felt anything then.


Jawab 



Armand Vervaeck berkata: 

September 1, 2011 pada 2:14 pm


Mary, thank you for additional comment – Armand


Jawab 





patricia berkata: 

September 1, 2011 pada 10:30 di


I was driving last night when I felt a shaking in the car while waiting at a light. It last just seconds. This happened 08/31/11 in Frederick, md around 11:25 pm.


Jawab 



Lucy berkata: 

Ogos 26, 2011 pada 3:10 pm


I felt the aftershock also at 1:08 am in Columbia, MD


Jawab 



Teresa berkata: 

Ogos 25, 2011 pada 9:17 di


I am located in Grandy, NC and felt a light tremor lasting not more than 2-3 seconds at 3:40 a.m. What is the likelyhood that this was an aftershock? Have there been any other reports or signs of activity? I realize not many people would be awake at this time to make such a report, but the first time it happened I felt a strong shaking for about 8-10 saat. I questioned whether it was just me and said nothing. Now I can’t help but wonder.


Jawab 








Cakap Fikiran Batal reply

Nama *
E-mel *
Laman Web
 






Sila input simbol dari gambar








Terjemahan
Set sebagai bahasa lalai Edit Terjemahan
Menerima kami "Artikel Baru Harian" surat berita + Breaking News Utama - Klik untuk contoh

 
Masa yang berlalu sejak gempa CatDat lepas Merah :
48 hari 5 jam 41 minit 28 saat






 Gempa bumi Report.com ringkasan artikel dalam laman web anda ?
Penggunaan Kandungan Widget khas - Klik di sini untuk melihat contoh dan kod

Terakhir dikemaskini Posts Widget
Sangat kuat (dalam) gempa bumi di bawah Sumatra, Indonesia - 12 kanak-kanak lelaki berusia tahun yang dibunuh oleh sebuah rumah runtuhGempa bumi senarai September 6, 2011Gempa bumi senarai September 5, 2011 - Gempa bumi yang sangat kuat di bawah Sumatra Gempa bumi Virginia "I Have Felt Ia" reports - 112 laporanGempa bumi senarai September 4, 2011Besar-besaran dalam gempa bumi di Vanuatu + gempa susulan pada September 4/5Swarm gempa bumi melanda Republik Czech / Jerman sempadan - baru swarm on September 4Gempa bumi Colorado / New Mexico, Amerika Syarikat - Kerosakan dianggarkan : 100,000 US $ + Kerosakan gambarGempa bumi senarai September 3, 2011 + Gempa bumi besar-besaran di VanuatuGempa bumi berita yang berkaitan 2011-09-1Sekumpulan gempa bumi Jerman - Czech sempadan rantau. Untuk maklumat lanjut mengenai gempa bumi itu 3 SeptemberApa yang bergerak lebih cepat daripada gempa bumi ? Meneka ...Gempa bumi senarai September 2, 2011 - Gempa bumi penting dalam Alaska dan ArgentinaGempa bumi yang dahsyat di lereng Subduksi tdk berpenduduk Islands AlaskaGempa susulan Virginia + 116 "I Have Felt Ia" laporan




Category Specific RSS
 Gempa bumi yang merosakkan yang kukuh Senarai harian gempa bumi Gempa bumi harian berita berkaitan Gempa bumi dengan kerosakan terhad Dangeropus gempa bumi Magnitud 6 atau lebih gempa bumi Kesediaan Semua artikeloleh Tips dan trik
 Diterbitkan posts terkini

Gempa bumi senarai September 6, 2011
Sangat kuat (dalam) gempa bumi di bawah Sumatra, Indonesia – 12 kanak-kanak lelaki berusia tahun yang dibunuh oleh sebuah rumah runtuh
Gempa bumi senarai September 5, 2011 – Gempa bumi yang sangat kuat di bawah Sumatra
Besar-besaran dalam gempa bumi di Vanuatu + gempa susulan pada September 4/5
Gempa bumi senarai September 4, 2011
Gempa bumi berita yang berkaitan 2011-09-1
Gempa bumi senarai September 3, 2011 + Gempa bumi besar-besaran di Vanuatu
Apa yang bergerak lebih cepat daripada gempa bumi ? Meneka …
Gempa bumi yang dahsyat di lereng Subduksi tdk berpenduduk Islands Alaska
Gempa bumi senarai September 2, 2011 – Gempa bumi penting dalam Alaska dan Argentina
Gempa bumi sederhana di kawasan Greater Los Angeles – NO kerosakan atau kecederaan melaporkan
Gempa susulan Virginia + 116 “I Have Felt Ia” laporan
Gunung berapi aktif di dunia dari 24/08/2011 untuk 30/08/2011
Gempa bumi senarai September 1, 2011 + Magnitud 4.2 gempa bumi di kawasan Los Angeles
Penggerudian untuk memahami rahsia Sesar San Andreas (video)
Gempa bumi senarai Ogos 31, 2011
Gempa bumi lemah yang sangat cetek menakutkan pusat bandar San Fransisco
Sangat kuat “dalam” gempa bumi di Laut Banda (Timor Timur – Indonesia)
Gempa bumi senarai Ogos 30, 2011
Satu lagi letusan indah Gunung Etna (Itali) on August 29 2011 + video


Popular Posts

Gempa bumi senarai Ogos 23, 2011
2 Gempa bumi, cetek, telah takut di Gard dan Ardèche, Perancis
Jepun Tohoku tsunami dan gempa bumi : Kematian memanjat lagi!
Gempa bumi Colorado / New Mexico, Amerika Syarikat - Kerosakan dianggarkan : 100,000 US $ + Kerosakan gambar
Besar-besaran 7+ gempa bumi berhampiran Vanuatu Efate Island (Ogos 20/21, 2011
Gempa bumi senarai Julai 25, 2011
Gempa susulan Virginia + 116 "I Have Felt Ia" laporan
Aktiviti gempa bumi di bawah El Hierro (gunung berapi), Kepulauan Canary, Sepanyol
Gempa bumi yang sangat kuat dan berbahaya mainan kerincingan Virginia - gambaran keseluruhan kerosakan
Video letusan hari ini. (Ogos 20) di Etna gunung berapi (Sicily, Itali) + video letusan yang lain







 
 
Hubungi
     - Report.com gempa bumi adalah sebahagian daripada Gempa Bumi SOS, bantuan kepada korban gempa organisasi bukan keuntungan-  hak cipta  © 2011 ·  powered by 123Webdesign 
        · Log masuk













