Earthquake Farce in Washington as Media Overhype Minor Tremor - The Daily Beast


















Home
Politics
Entertainment
Books
Fashion
Innovation
Business
U.S. News
World
Causes
Art
Education
Newsweek.com


Trending Topics

Jobs
College Rankings
Andrew Sullivan
Women in the World
Spin Cycle
Photos
Food









The Daily Beast Homepage
media



Content Section



Washington’s Earthquake Farce
Aug 23, 2011 11:50 PM EDT
            



                    
                    The earth shook briefly. Some buildings swayed. People were puzzled. And the TV crews pounced. Howard Kurtz on why an earthquake blip in the Washington area got the crisis treatment.
                    
                



Print
Email
Comments









It was a dramatic day on the world stage.
A ragtag group of Libyan rebels had fought their way to the center of Tripoli and were on the verge of breaking a brutal dictator’s four-decade rule. They had broken through Muammar Gaddafi’s heavily fortified compound; nobody knew whether he was inside. As in Tunisia, as in Egypt, what had long seemed impossible was on the verge of becoming reality.

And then: the ground shook in the Washington area for about 15 seconds.
Goodbye, rebels. Hello, pandemonium.
And thereby hangs a tale of media behavior and public attention spans that may carry a lesson beyond the oddity of an East Coast tremor.
At the beginning of August, the country’s attention was riveted by a man-made Washington disaster that brought the government to the brink of default for no reason other than endless political squabbling.
Toward the end of August, the country’s attention was riveted by an act of nature that, while briefly anxiety-provoking, stopped well short of disaster.
I was a block from the White House when I heard the loud rumble, saw park benches rattling, and wondered whether a passing cement truck was to blame.

Despite my finely honed journalistic instincts, I didn’t realize it was an earthquake. People looked around, puzzled, and resumed their conversations. Only when thousands of workers started pouring out of downtown office buildings did I realize that something of a higher magnitude was up.


Gallery: Quake 'Destruction' Photos








But it wasn’t much of a higher magnitude, at least this distance from the epicenter of the 5.8 quake in Virginia. Imagine my surprise, then, when I walked into the Upper Crust pizzeria and, up on the wall past the freshly baked pies, saw CNN in breaking-news mode.
The Libyan rebels had vanished. On the cable news channels, it was all quake, all the time.
It was a perfect media story on a sunny Tuesday afternoon: lots of pictures, lots of person-on-the-street interviews, lots of clicks online—but without the messy and depressing reality of an actual disaster. No one, as far as I can tell, was seriously injured, but everyone was buzzing. As officials called press conferences, it looked, felt, and smelled like news—but only in a surreal sense.

Now, of course we should cover such an unusual event, minor though it would have been in L.A. The Capitol was evacuated, trains were slowed down, flights were delayed, and work ground to a halt in the capital—though in the dog days of summer it was hard to tell. Some D.C. buildings sustained minor damage, and, as I can personally attest, traffic was in utter gridlock even miles from downtown as everyone tried to drive home at once. Cellphone service was close to nonexistent.

Meanwhile, there was a 5.7 earthquake near Trinidad, Colo., at midnight Monday that also did little damage. Did you hear about it? No, because Colorado isn’t a major media center crawling with TV crews the way Washington is (not to mention New York, where news executives got interested when their skyscrapers swayed).


Much of the media has only one volume these days, and that is loud.

What gave those few seconds currency, of course, was that they were a shared experience, felt as far away as Toronto. It was a smartphone quake, as people texted family and friends to make sure they were all right. They flocked to Twitter with observations and jokes (“the debt ceiling finally collapsed”). President Obama had the temerity to be golfing on the Vineyard when the homeland was threatened. I kept waiting for the Republicans to start slamming him for inaction.
And if this modest tectonic shift seemed overblown on a million info-outlets, well, much of the media has only one volume these days, and that is loud. A story isn’t just big, it isn’t just huge, it’s the only story—that is, until the next fixation (have you seen Hurricane Irene on the weather maps?) comes along to replace it.
That’s why everyone went into team-coverage mode, geological experts were trotted out, and random people on the street were interviewed. The classic local-news question: what about the Big One? Could it happen here?

With no serious damage to worry about, it was like a giant training exercise on the eve of the 10th anniversary of 9/11 (which will become its own obsession as the appointed date draws closer). Like the elaborately choreographed escape from default, it was a signal moment of Washington unreality, more farce than tragedy. By now the whole thing feels like a blip on the media Richter scale.

Whatever happened to those Libyan rebels, anyway?


Like The Daily Beast on Facebook and
                follow us on Twitter for updates all day
                long.
Howard Kurtz is The Daily Beast and Newsweek's Washington bureau chief, and writes the Spin Cycle blog. He also hosts CNN's weekly media program Reliable Sources on Sundays at 11 a.m. ET. The longtime media reporter and columnist for The Washington Post, Kurtz is the author of five books.
For inquiries, please contact The Daily Beast at editorial@thedailybeast.com.


NEXT

View As Single Page




Print
Email
Comments








Tags:

Libya,media,U.S. News,Muammar Gaddafi







Related Stories






Comments








Change Text Size
Smaller Text
Larger Test

Author



Howard Kurtz

Follow Howard Kurtz on twitter

    
     






Most Popular


Emma Stone's Lohan Problem
Did Osama Win?
Bill Clinton to the Rescue
Michael Moore, Triumphant?
What If?






Stories We Like



ew.com
'Grey's,' 'HIMYM': Fresh TV Spoilers!


ShelterPop
Make a Small Bedroom Look Bigger


Newsweek
                    Michael Moore, Triumphant?
                

Ask Men
The Most Common Dating Mistakes Men Make


Political Wire
Decision Time for the GOP Establishment


BuzzFeed
10 Excellent Little-Known Condiments
















Other News



Politics




Silvio Slanders Italy
Spouses Get Stylish on the Campaign Trail
Politicians Get Grilled: Funny Photos of VIPs Barbecuing
Get More from Powerwall




Entertainment




The 25 most addictive Labor Day TV marathons
Is ‘Citizen Kane’ REALLY the greatest American movie of all time?
Admit it, Nickelodeon! Lori Beth Denberg always knew the answer on ‘Figure It Out’, didn’t she?
Get More from EW.com




Entertainment




Busan International Film Festival to Feature Yonfan Retrospective
Jerry Lewis MDA Telethon Proceeds, Raises $61.5 Mil
Telluride 2011: Sex and Psychoanalysis in 'Shame' and 'A Dangerous Method'
Get More from The Hollywood Reporter




Politics




Perry Holds Big Lead in Iowa
Rollins Stepping Back from Bachmann Campaign
Bonus Quote of the Day
Get More from Political Wire









The Daily Beast



Topics

Sexy Beast
Book Beast
Art Beast
Giving Beast




Subjects

Stories
Videos
Galleries
Politics
Entertainment
Books
Art
Innovation
Business
U.S.News
World
Causes




Trending Topics

Jobs
College Rankings
Andrew Sullivan
Women in the World
Spin Cycle
Photos
Food




More

Facebook
Twitter Feed
iPhone App




Partners

Expedia
Hotels
Hotwire
Merchantcircle
Reference
Thesaurus
Urbanspoon




Company

Help
About Us
Contact Us
Work For Us
Advertise With Us
Privacy Policy
Community Policy
Terms of Use
Financial Disclaimer
Copyright & Trademark





Accessibiliity
© 2011 The Newsweek/Daily Beast Company LLC


Get Email Updates Sign Up
Sign up for daily email updates from The Daily Beast


























