توابع ولاية فرجينيا + 116 “وقد شعرت و” تقارير

زلزال تقريرأفضل التقارير المستقلة زلزال موقع في العالم
أضرار كبيرة 2011
المعتدلة الضرر 2011
مهم 2010 الزلازل

كرايستشيرش 09/2010
كرالييفو, صربيا
تسونامي اندونيسيا


CATDAT 2010

الزلازل المدمرة 2010
البراكين المدمرة 2010






منزل
حول
الزلازل القاتلة 2011

كرايستشيرش, نيوزيلندا 22/02
يونان, الصين 10/03
اليابان تسونامي 11/03
تاتشيليك, ميانمار 24/03
لوركا, إسبانيا 11/05
Sımav, تركيا 19/05
Nabro بركان, اريتريا 12/06
كرايستشيرش, نيوزيلندا 14/06
قيرغيزستان / أوزبكستان 19/07


تأهب
فهم …

الزلزال حيث
فهم …


القوائم, أخبار, البلدان

القوائم وأخبار 2011
مقالات لكل بلد


 


توابع ولاية فرجينيا + 116 “وقد شعرت و” تقارير
آخر تحديث: سبتمبر 2, 2011 في 4:35 وبحلول مساء بواسطة أرماند Vervaeck ودانييل جيمس 
سبتمبر 1, 2011  بواسطة أرماند Vervaeck ودانييل جيمس  
Newest update : many additional I Have Felt It reports
نظرة عامة على الزلزال : Weak  to moderate aftershocks are rattling the Virginia earthquake area. نحن لا نتوقع أي ضرر إضافي, ولكن استنادا إلى تقارير فيلت, ورأى هزات ارتدادية في منطقة محدودة حول المعدنية / مركز لويس.
أيضا قراءة :  زلزال قوي يهز جدا وخطيرة ولاية فرجينيا – نظرة عامة على الضرر
أيضا قراءة :  فهم حجم 5.8 فرجينيا الزلزال (أغسطس 23, 2011)
أيضا قراءة :  توابع ولاية فرجينيا + 116 "هل شعرت أنه” تقارير
أيضا قراءة : اختيار الفيديو من الزلزال ولاية فرجينيا التي Report.com الزلزال
أيضا قراءة : ماذا يسافر أسرع من زلزال ? تخمين …
نسأل الناس الذين شعروا بهذا الزلزال لتبادل المعلومات مع العديد من قرائنا (أيضا من منطقتك). من فضلك استخدام "لقد شعرت أنها" النموذج التالي.
Direct epicenter area from the August 25 هزة ارتدادية - Panoramio image courtesy: Idawriter
التحديث 01/09 – 05:09  PM Local time : 
M 3.4      2011/09/01 09:09     عمق 4.9 كم     فرجينيا
	05:09:37 صباحا في مركز الزلزال
	واحدة من أقوى هزة ارتدادية.
	6 كم (4 كيلومتر) SSE (156°) من معدن, وزارة شؤون المحاربين القدامى 13 كم (8 كيلومتر) SE (125°) من لويس, VA
الأقمار الصناعية خريطة للمنطقة أكبر بؤرة
Felt reports from this aftershock :
Charlottesville, VA : 5:09في 8 seconds of light shaking – enough to rattle the windows, wake us, and the dogs.
Locust Grove, VA – Lasted approx 20 – 30 sec
Spotsylvania, VA – Felt like the house was going over rumble strips on the highway…lasted about 30 ثانية.
Scottsville, VA – Lasted perhaps 7 أو 8 ثانية.
New Canton, VA – I had just awoken and felt the house shake. There was a slight "boom" as if something had hit the house and then I heard the windowframes rattling and heard the rumble.  This is the 4th aftershock I have felt/heard at home since the quake last week.
Montpelier, VA – Awakened by loud rumbling sound.
Oldenburg, IN – I was in bed and it was shaking slightly–for what felt like a very long minute. I looked at my clock and saw it was 5:10 في (IS : Hard to believe as we speak of a distance to the epicenter of 400 كيلومتر!)
Cartersville, VA : We have been getting moderate shaking every night since the bigger Quake.They sound like train coal cars stopping, lots of banging the louder the bang the worst in the shaken of the house. It goes by with the loudest bang with a lifting or wave and then slowly the banging goes away in the distance ,like a train going down the train tracks.
Nelson, VA : Rattled my windows.
Richmond, VA : At approximately 5 am this morning, Sept 1, my husband and I woke up as our ceiling fan and windows were shaking for about 30 seconds.  It was pretty strong to wake us up but not enough for us to run out of the house.
Goochland County, VA : Felt quake around 5 am this morning. Had to straighten pictures on the wall again!
Petersburg, VA : الهز الخفيف
Alexandria, VA : Woke up to its effect of causing large mirror to fall and shatter in bathroom.
Manakin Sabot, VA : It was about 5:10 this morning…I woke up to my bed shaking and the house rattling. A very disturbing thing to wake up to!
Lake Monticello, VA : Awakened suddenly by fairly strong rumbling & shaking a little after 5 في. سبتمبر 1, 2011.
Unionville, VA : My clock said 5:04 but its all the same.. loud rumble, lasted about half a minute or so and the shaking of the walls and floors last almost as long.. I heard the rumble a few seconds before i felt the house shake. So, i got up and checked on everyone and i was the only one who was woke up from the loud rumble.
So i went back to bed and said man i hope thats the end of it… That is the third one to wake me from a dead sleep. The one just before 1:00 am and the one the next morning just after 1:00 am last week were the first two to wake me up out of 3 times total. Now i just wish i knew it was the end of it! as i don't like them at night!! LOL.
التحديث 29/08 – 11:48  PM Local time :  Another aftershock going along with some light shaking has struck the Virginia earthquake area.  Epicenter on almost the same location than the mainshock, close to Mineral and Louisa.
	حجم : 2.6 @ عمق 8.5 km. 48 كم (29 كيلومتر) من ESE Charlottesville, Virginia and 56 كم (34 كيلومتر) من SW Fredericksburg, فرجينيا.
Felt report(مع) :
Charlotteville, Va : In Charlottesville near Pantops area, August 30th I felt another tremor around 11:20pm last night, August 29th…..lasted about 10 seconds.  Did anyone else feel it? – MMI الثالث
التحديث 27/08 – 11:16  PM Local time :  A weak 2.7 magnitude aftershock struck the area at a depth of 5.1 km at 11:16 PM on August 27.  The epicenter was located closest to لويس و معدن و 42 كم من Charlottesville, VA
Felt Reports from this aftershock :
Orange, VA – I felt a very weak aftershake in Gordonsville, Orange County, VA, حوالي الساعة 11:30 or so. Gordonsville is located only a short distance from Mineral which was the epicenter of last week's earthquake, and I have felt several aftershakes since then. Every time there is an aftershake, I can hear the underground explosion, but the sound is extremely low. I think we also had an aftershake earlier this evening, though I am not 100% sure. إنني, لكن, positive that we had an aftershake at 11:30 here in Gordonsville. Even my cat reacted visibly to it. – MMI الثالث
Fluvanna, VA – MMI VI Strong shaking indicated. (IS : Fluvanna is situated approx. 20 كم من مركز الزلزال)
Fluvanna, VA – At about 11:10 م. Sunday the 28th. We are real close to Louisa County Virginia.  حول 2 miles south of US 250 east . Two tremors back to back
التحديث : So far we have received I Have Felt It reports with a max. معتدل يهز (MMI الخامس), which corresponds with the theoretical USGS values. A V MMI is described as a moderate shaking with possible light damage at vulnerable buildings. Light damage is like cracks in walls, fallen tiles, الخ.
التحديث : Aftershocks likes this one are perfectly normal after a 5.9 زلزال. Occasionally an isolated 5+ quake might be possible too. A greater aftershock than the initial 5.9 is also possible, but the chance on it is very exceptional.
التحديث :  Based on the many Felt reports we are receiving we do expect at max. some additional minimal damage within a radius of 5 كم من مركز الزلزال (which means Cuckoo alone).
التحديث : Epicenter of the earthquake below Cuckoo and approx. 8 km from Mineral
التحديث : according to the theoretical calculations of USGS the ماكس. Felt experience will be a moderate shaking : في MMI
"هل شعرت أنه" تقارير
	قيم MMI (إذا أشار) بعد النص (ثالثا: ضعف يهز, رابعا الخفيفة تهز, V معتدل يهز, سادسا قوي يهز, سابعا قوي جدا هز)
فرجينيا - i WAS SITTING DOWNSTAIRS WHEN i HEARD THE SAME NOISE i HEARD THE 23 WHEN THE OTHER QUAKE KIT THEN MY DAUGHTER ASKED IF i FELT THE HOUSE SHAKE AGAIN? mY WIFE SAID SHE ALSO FELT IT SHAKE – MMI الثالث
Maryland - I was just about to fall asleep when I heard everything on my shelves shaking and then began to feel it. It was all too firmiliar considering it just happened here 2 days ago. – MMI الرابع
Culpeper, Virginia – 1:08في, الخميس 25 aug 2011 light aftershock in Culpeper, Virginia – MMI الثالث
Arlington, VA – Getting to be an expert on what an earthquake feels like!  This occurred at about 1:05 AM. – MMI الثالث
Charlottesville va – 1:08 في  shaking for approx 15 sec…   not as bad as a few days ago but fairly scarry.  My dog howled before I noticed it. – MMI الرابع
Dale City (Woodbridge) – At approximately 1:10 A.M. في 08/25/2011 light aftershock felt in Dale City (Woodbridge), lasted about  five seconds. – MMI الثالث
Burke, VA – At around 1:10 AM on August 25, 2011 – MMI الثالث
فرجينيا - it felt like an after shock from the earthquake on the 23rd august. – ثالثا
Palmyra, فرجينيا – mild aftershock from 8/23/11 – رابعا
Thornburg, VA – وأشار ضوء تهز  – MMI الرابع
Falls Church, VA – Bed shook, heard walls crack the way they do when there are strong winds. Did not see any reactions from our rabbit(who lives indoors). – رابعا
فرجينيا, – 1 am August 25 felt a weak shaking in northern virginia – MMI الثالث
Fredericksburg, VA – Just felt an aftershock about an hour ago in Fredericksburg, VA while on the phone with my son in Afghanistan. Around 1:00 صباحا. 8-25-11. – MMI الخامس
Wheaton, MD – I felt an aftershock about 45 minutes ago in Wheaton, MD. – ثالثا
Richmond, فرجينيا – في 1:09 صباحا. أغسطس 25, 2011, I felt my entire house shake for approximately 5-10 ثانية. Two minutes later, I felt some very weak tremors. – MMI الرابع
فرجينيا - me and my family wher upstairs and suddenly right when we put the lights out id say about a moderate earthquake hit us for about 10 seconds we all went downstairs and regrouped id say it was lighter than the 5.9 that hit the east coast on the 23rd or 24th – MMI الخامس
واشنطن, DC – Just about to fall off to sleep. Awaken by bed shaking (not in a good way either). This aftershock lasted longer than Tuesday's initial earthquake too. This was a rumble feeling that shook my whole house….and I now need a Valium….أو 3. – MMI الرابع
Fredericksburg, VA – I was sitting in the upstairs part of my house and there was significant shaking, as well i happened to be looking out the window at the time and my cat freaked out before it started. – رابعا
Fredericksburg, VA – Just felt an aftershock about an hour ago in Fredericksburg, VA while on the phone with my son in Afghanistan. Around 1:00 صباحا. 8-25-11. – MMI الخامس
Nellysford, Va – الهز الخفيف – MMI الرابع
Stafford, فرجينيا – Aug. 25ال, just after 1:00في, Heard noise and then felt my chair shaking back & forth. Didn't last long, and my family seems to have slept through it. – ثالثا
السلطة الفلسطينية, – Dozing on the couch in my living room in SW PA w/my cat.  Felt "something" just shake the house rapidly.  Woke up & scared the hell out of both of us.  Thought someone had hit the house and/or was trying to break in.  After ascertaining that everything was ok & no one trying to break in, checked the laptop & sure enough VA was hit w/an aftershook. – MMI الرابع
Mount Sidney, VA – I was watching television. The clock read 1:10 في. It was less intense than the original quake, but the vibration frequency was about the same. It was just strong enough to shake a DVD off the top of the DVD player. The ceiling fan shook slightly. Two kids and a wife in bed, they didn't feel a thing. – MMI الخامس
معدن, Va – Was real short, but felt rather violent.  Not sustained like the main earthquake.  Was like a 2 sec. heavy shake or more like a jump feeling for me, like i bounced up outta my couch, then just the dull roar sound with minimal vibration as if bass speakers were maxed – MMI الرابع
Melfa, VA – I was at work and felt a strong shake.  Everything on the counter rattled and fell in the floor.  It was hard to keep your balance. Everyone looked at me after it was over and all I could say was "I DIDN'T DO IT!" After work my fiance' and I returned home to find that all pictures on the wall and and lamps were in the floor. – VI
Vienna, VA – At about 1:07في, I felt a light shaking that last 5 seconds while lying on couch-I knew it was an earthquake right away.  The dog became very restless and nervous afterwards. رابعا
Annandale, Va -  I was watching TV in a second floor bedroom, felt an initial slight jolt and immediately knew what it was.  Could feel the chair vibrating and could hear a rattling noise from vibrating furniture and/or other objects in the room.  I Put my hand on side of the dresser and could definitely feel vibrations coming up through the floor.  It lasted at least 20 ثانية; definitely not a normal occurrence! It happened about 1:08 إلى 1:10 AM, 25 Aug., 2011. – رابعا
Stafford, VA -  iwas playing my DSi when all of a sudden i heard a vibrating noise… then the house lightly shook for about 5-10 seconds and iwas thinking, "please, not again…" but then it stopped. yay. :p -  MMI الثالث
Lynchburg, فرجينيا – Felt aftershock at 1:09am House shook  was on second floor of house and the chair I was in moved up and down.  Was like the floor was bowing up and down. Lasted about 15/20 sec.   This one was stronger than the first aftershock we had yesterday. – رابعا
Bethesda, MA – Felt this one too, my watch showed 1:09 AM EST by the time tremors ended. Felt it all, just like the one on Tuesday, as I was sitting in my bed, working on the laptop, just as Tuesday. Considering earthquakes are not very common for this area, was pretty scary. The noise of the windows vibrating here in the house was creepy, both earlier and on Tuesday … One of the 2 cats started miaowing aggresively right after the quake. – في
Towson, MD – I felt week shaking about 1:10 am Thursday 8/25/2011.  I was laying in bed. It was for few seconds, was going to wake up everybody in the  house as I realized what it was but then it stopped – ثالثا
Palmyra, VA – Woke just after 1am on Thursday, Aug 25 to moderate shaking – heard the house crack like in strong winds first.  No apparent damage, just a little movement of some items.  – MMI الخامس
Philadelphia, PA -  was about to fall asleep when I felt the bed shake in a wave motion and items on a wall shelf were rattling.  حول 10 ثانية, time 1:17am.  Very strange feeling – في
Falls Church , VA – I was laying in bed and the shaking woke me up a little after 1am today, الخميس, أغسطس 25, 2011 -  في
Amelia Court House, VA – Just a few minutes after 1:00 AM I awoke to bed shaking, heard some clinking (probably dishes in sink).  Our dogs were whinning, so got out of bed and felt a few slight waves of movement – رابعا
فرجينيا, ?? – I was in bed reading approximately 1:10 am.  My husband was asleep beside me.  When the house started rattling I thought, "Oh boy…again?" It didn't last more three-five seconds but I asked Ken, "Did you feel it?  We just had another quake."  I woke him, the tremor did not.  Glad to know that others felt it also and my imagination wasn't working overtime! – رابعا
McLean, VA – وأشار ضوء تهز – MMI الرابع
Maryland, Aspen Hill - Sitting in my living room around 1am, I felt light trembling similar to what we experienced July 2010 when a 3.4 magnitude tremor occurred with epicenter about 20 miles from my house.  Sounded like a large truck speeding by but I live on a narrow side street that would not have that type of traffic that time of night – ثالثا
Richmond, فرجينيا – I felt the aftershock of the earthquake early this morning; I watched as my iron danced about half an inch from its original position on my ironing board in my room. The picture frames shook too, but there was no damage to anything. It sounded like a caravan of 18-wheeler trucks drove by right outside the window. I thought it was another earthquake, because I could feel it shaking from deep within my chest, which does not occur when a truck or something big goes by. My roommate, who was down the hall, didn't feel anything – ثالثا
Lanexa, VA -  At about 1:05am we felt the whole house shake with some items falling off of a she'll in the bedroom. It lasted maybe 10 or so seconds – في
فرجينيا 22920 – 1:12 am awakened by shaking and noise.  duration of about 15 ثانية – ثالثا
Maryland - Not able to sleep, my 14 year old son and I felt a significant earthquake around 1:15 صباحا. this morining, 8/25/2011 – MMI الخامس
Frederick, Maryland – I was sleeping at the time, and i was awaken by feeling that something violently threw my head back i was quite scared and i did not know what it was until this morning – VII
Columbia, MD – Just falling asleep at about 1:00am last night (Aug 25, 2011) when the floors started creaking and we thought someone might be in our house. Then other items started shaking too and we knew it must be an aftershock from the Mineral, VA earthquake 2 days ago. We've read that this aftershock was a 4.8 and located close the original epicenter – في
Eldersburg, MD – I was awakened on 5/24 at approx 12:45 a.m. and on 5/25 at approx. 1:07 a.m. by the rattle of the doors on an old stand in my bedroom.  I did not feel any shaking in the bed, just heard the rattle of the doors that woke me up. I have lived in this house 16 years and never experienced such rattle.  ثالثا: Weak Shaking
Bethesda, MA – Felt this one too, my watch showed 1:09 AM EST by the time tremors ended. Felt it all, just like the one on Tuesday, as I was sitting in my bed, working on the laptop, just as Tuesday. Considering earthquakes are not very common for this area, was pretty scary. The noise of the windows vibrating here in the house was creepy, both earlier and on Tuesday … One of the 2 cats started miaowing aggresively right after the quake. – في
Towson, MD – I felt week shaking about 1:10 am Thursday 8/25/2011.  I was laying in bed. It was for few seconds, was going to wake up everybody in the  house as I realized what it was but then it stopped. – ثالثا
Monroe, Va – Woke me up, Strong aftershock felt about 1:08 صباحا. in Monroe, Va. for a couple of seconds.
Baltimore, MD – I was finally drifting to sleep after 24 hours of sleeplessness and suddenly jolted awake as the bed shook and several things in my bedroom moved across their shelves. In other parts of our home small items were out of place or knocked over. Not nearly as bad as Tuesday's quake but I certainly won't be sleeping well for a while… – رابعا
Apple Grove, VA – We are 3 miles from the epicenter.  Before the quake there were 2 light, short tremors.  One around midnight, the next just a few minutes before – في
White Oak, Montgomery County, MD – I was awakened at 1:08 am by light-to-moderate shaking, and realized immediately that we were experiencing an aftershock.  I was not in the same location (my bed) when the original quake occurred, so I cannot compare the two events (in fact, I was walking around downtown Rockville, MD, and didn't detect it at all), لكن, the intensity and duration of this event was slighty less than what I felt last year when I was also awakened from sleep by an earthquake which was centered in Germantown, MD. – رابعا
معدن VA – I was a sleep and the house started shaking and rumbling again.  It was about 1:06 في, will this soon stop? – MMI السادس (Strong Shaking)
Lynchburg, VA – At a little after 1:00 am I was awakened by my shaking bed and pictures and a slight rumble.  I thought "here we go again!"  Scary….. – رابعا
Lynchburg, VA – Awakened just after 1 AM Thursday a.m. by shaking and by very strange house sounds…nothing I can liken to anything I've heard in the house before (and I wasn't at home for the Tuesday afternoon quake).  Shaking was continuous but house sounds came in several waves over several seconds.  At its peak, I also heard a noise from outside…possibly our deck rattling – في
Reston, VA – 1:07 am August 25, 2011 – same sound and shaking for about 10 ثانية – في
Alexandria, VA – 1:08 AM Thursday, August 25.  The house-shaking-noise was minor this time, but I felt the movement under my feet as I was sitting at my computer.  The dogs did not react this time at all, but it was still unsettling (it lasted quite awhile). – رابعا
Bumpass, VA – I live just outside the epicenter area and last night i woke up at 1:08 to my house shaking.. it felt like how a cheap hotel would shake as a train goes by. it was strong enough to wake me but not major. basically just vibrated my house. – IV-V
Stafford - Woke me up at about 1:08.  Everyone else slept through it – في
Amherst, Viginia – IV MMI indicated (الهز الخفيف)
Arlington, VA – about 1.14 am I feel shaking and ratteling in the house, Alexandra – MMI الرابع
Prince William County, Manassas, VA – I was asleep.  I felt the bed shaking.  My husband woke me up and told me we had just experienced an aftershock.  I think it lasted about 5 ثانية (very brief). – رابعا
College Park, MD – I got up at around 1:00am to feed my grandson and felt what I thought was a large truck passing by but the shaking became stronger and my home began to shake, I knew then it was an earthquake.  It only lasted a few seconds  – MMI الرابع
Woodbridge, VA – I woke up to slight shaking at 1:08 في. استمر ذلك حوالي 15 ثانية- time for me to wake up, get out of bed, and move to my door – رابعا
معدن, VA – أنا أعيش 3 miles from the center of that aftershock and I thought tt wasn't as long as bad as the 4.2 from the night before.  It is all the little rumbling all night long that makes it interesting. – MMI الخامس
Stafford VA – I heard a long (maybe 30 ثانية) low steady rumbling at 12:45. My time seems to be off from everyone else so I am wondering if I am wrong? It was either an aftershock or Marine Base Quantico doing some sort of bombing at that time of the morning, which I doubt. I got up to look around – nothing shaking, just vibrating with this low rumbling. It lasted too long to be a low flying plane or truck rumbling by, so I guess aftershock – ثالثا
Fredericksburg, Va -  I was sleeping and woke up because of the shaking. Definitely not as strong as a few days ago, but enough to wake me up. I sat up and looked at my phone, it was 1:10في – MMI الثالث
Toano فرجينيا – I noticed rattling while laying in bed then heard my closet doors rattle and felt the bed shake around 1:10 – في
Falmouth, فرجينيا – Felt shaking 1:09 في, ceiling fans and overhead light rattling, bots slept through it – رابعا
Richmond VA – I was sitting on the couch watching TV, and everything sorta vibrated for about 20 ثانية, It felt similar to the first one to me, although I was outside the first time….around 1am – رابعا
Tappahannock VA – We felt the aftershock it rattled our ceilings
Cockeysville/Hunt Valley, Maryland – I was in bed and it was exactly 1:09 a.m August 25th.  It woke me up and there appeared to be lines running across the TV.    But i sure felt it. I looked at the clock for the time.  It did not last as long as the Earthquake on Tuesday, Aug. 23rd – MMI السادس
Fredericksburg, Va – I was sleeping and woke up because of the shaking. Definitely not as strong as a few days ago, but enough to wake me up. I sat up and looked at my phone, it was 1:10في – ثالثا
Triangle, VA – MMI IV = light shaking
Rockville, MD – Watching TV in bed when room started to shake for about 5-10 seconds at 1:09في. Nothing too crazy – MMI الرابع
Roanoke, VA – أغسطس 25, 2011–1:09 في–was in bed and the bed swayed for a couple of seconds. – رابعا
Green Bay VA – I was sitting on my couch watching tv around 1am and the house started shaking. Unlike the initial quake this one made the dishes in my cabinets rattle. It lasted maybe 20-30 seconds but didn't wake anyone else in the house up. This one was quieter than the initial one as well. There was an aftershock or something a few hours after the one on the 23rd but even though everyone was awake nobody felt it but me and my dogs. I barely even felt it. – ثالثا
Bumpass, VA – 11:27 am felt short aftershock about 4 ثانية….just want it to stop. We are just a few short miles from Mineral, where our kids attend school. Still unsettling! – MMI الرابع
Roanoke, Virginia -  I woke up to use the bathroom at 1:00 am on 5/25…just as I started to drift back to sleep I heard our windows begin to rattle loudly and the noticed the bed shaking.  The tremor only lasted for about 3 أو 5 seconds.  My husband adn 3 year old both slept through it.  I also had a 6 year old student that was knocked out of his bed last night by the aftershock. – MMI الخامس
Crystal City, VA – Slight aftershock at 1:08في, 1:14, و 1:20am.  House made sounds like with a strong wind blowing. Nothing fell off shelfs as they did during earthquake.  Getting kind of stressed over it. Not moving to West coast! – ثالثا
MD - Woke up at about 1 AM by my beagle whimpering and digging at her crate. Shaking started afterward – في
Clifton, فرجينيا – Our family was sleeping around 1:00 a:m.  I awoke to the bed shaking and instantly knew it was an aftershock. My husband felt it as well. Our children said they were not awakened by it.  It was not anywhere close to what we experienced on Tuesday but I would describe it as light to moderate shaking.  I'm sure it would have seemed greater if you were awake and standing or sitting rather than lying down when it occurred. – في
معدن VA – Crazy Like the beginning of the 5.9 but stopped much quicker! Thank goodness – في
Alexandria, VA – ليلة أمس, just after 1 a.m., I was awoken by shaking. It felt like a train was going by the house. I woke up my husband and told him I thought we were experiencing an aftershock. He said I was crazy and told me to go back to sleep. Of course, كالعادة, I was right. – في
East Greenbush, NY -  MMI الثالث (ضعف يهز) indicated.
Gettysburg, السلطة الفلسطينية – I was on a horseback tour of the Gettysburg National Battlefield at 1:10 pm today (أغسطس 25) when my horse and at least three in front of me all stumbled (on flat ground) at the same time.  I was wondering if it was because of an aftershock of the Mineral, VA quake.  Thanks. – MMI الثالث
Arlington VA – A little after 1 am I was lying in bed upstairs in a two story house in northwest Arlington, reading.  Heard a low hum and then felt light to moderate shaking, doors rattling gently in door frames, bed rocking very slightly–much like a train were going by a few houses away.  Not sure how long it went on, but more than 5 seconds.  Did not wake my husband or son. – رابعا
Culpeper, VA – yo estaba acostada en mi coma cuando de repente empeso a bibrrar muy rapido y pense q era la labadora pero me quede pensando yo no estoy labando y de repente empeso a moberse toda la casa y lo unico q se me bino en mente esq era un tenblor senti muvho miedo por mis hijos.
Athens, GA – Woke up to windows rattling at 5:30 AM, الجمعة, أغسطس 26, 2011 in Athens – MMI الثالث
Lorton, VA -  I laying in bed reading and thought I felt the wind shaking the townhouse, then realized it was another earthquake.  My son was in
the other room, but said he did not feel anything. استمر ذلك حوالي 10 ثانية. – MMI الرابع
Burke, فرجينيا – I was in the living room when the aftershock happened. My family members who were asleep didn't really notice it. – MMI الثالث
Erie, Pa – We are in the second story of a office building and one of the plants started shaking and then you could hear the filing cabinets squeaking against eachother. Most people in our office didnt feel it unless they were touching their desks or some other big object. Just before 11am for about 20 ثانية. – MMI الثالث
Ashland, Va – On 23rd I was in Richmond, Va. at Krogers. I started my car because it was so hot and put my groceries in. I noticed that the car was shaking like it had an engine problem and my only worry was "how I was going to fix it". No thought of an erthquake. But on 8/25 at a few minutes after 1:00AM I was at the computer when my chair began to shake and the fax machine(which was not on) began to do it's thing. It was really scary.
Was it an aftershock or another earthquake? (Definitely an aftershock ER)
Greenville, MI – My little terrier was sleeping between my wife and I, when at approximately 1am, she began to whimper and yip quietly, waking me up.  I tried to calm her, thinking she needed to go out, perhaps.  She kept up this behavior for almost ten minutes, then settled down and went back to sleep.  In the meantime, I began to feel my bed vibrate lightly, then growing stronger to the point where I could feel it actually trembling, then subduing over the course of about two minutes.  I awoke my wife, but she had felt nothing.  The next morning, the news mentioned an aftershock had occurred early that morning.  I can only assume that is what I felt. – MMI الثالث
Fredericksburg, VA – I woke up to the house shaking.  The windows rattled and some CD's fell off the shelf.  This was quicker than the first one. – MMI السادس
Lynchburg, VA – Sounded like wind was picking up, walls started making creaking noises, bed started rocking. – MMI الثالث
Arlington VA  – A little after 1 am I was lying in bed upstairs in a two story house in northwest Arlington, reading.  Heard a low hum and then felt light to moderate shaking, doors rattling gently in door frames, bed rocking very slightly–much like a train were going by a few houses away.  Not sure how long it went on, but more than 5 seconds.  Did not wake my husband or son. – MMI الرابع
Madison Heights, VA – about 1:00 am ish heard strange noise, like train rumbling, lasting 15-30 secs, dogs down street started barking prior to rumbling sound, just an eerie feeling, house made noises like settling ceiling made cracking sounds, walls made noises. The train sound is common, since trains hook up in lynchburg everyday, assuming is not always what it is.
Columbia, SC – Sitting on the sofa with someone. They thought I was shaking the sofa. Lasted about a minute. – MMI الثالث
Ashland فرجينيا – Sitting on the couch after dinner I heard rumbling and shaking. My attention turned to the window and it crossed my mind what if then I remembered that a train amtrack runs through thye center of Ashland.Virginia. It crossed my mind that it was an aftershock but I thought probably the train and would I ever get over the fear of a Earthquake every time I heard a train always listning for the whistle is now a constant reassuring sound I lookout for . Resigned to the fact that it was a train I put it out of my mind and went about watching a show on TV. So it really wasnt a surprise that I found out from my friend we had a aftershock and I guessed it was about a 4 pretty lucky guess it was a 4.5 I am getting pretty good at guessing the Richter scale,Earthquakes and a Hurricane all in one week do I dare ask what next? well it all could of been much worse but prayers going out to all the peopke adversly affected. We just have to be prepared these days for any thing and make sure we don't take anything or those close to us for granted. – MMI الخامس
Reston, VA – 4 AM in Reston, VA. A/C is off, & I am the only one up. Definitely felt house shaking–still feeling it. Long time this time. Subtle, but present – MMI الرابع
بيانات الزلازل أهم:
	حجم : 4.5
	الوقت بالتوقيت العالمي : الخميس, أغسطس 25, 2011 في 05:07:50 بالتوقيت العالمي
	بالتوقيت المحلي في مركز الزلزال : الخميس, أغسطس 25, 2011 في 01:07:50 صباحا في مركز الزلزال
	عمق (تحت مركز الانفجار النووي) : 5 كم
	الموقع الجغرافي(مع) :
	51 كم (31 كيلومتر) هاء Charlottesville, فرجينيا
	58 كم (36 كيلومتر) من NW RICHMOND, فرجينيا
 
روابط لخرائط هامة
USGS هل تشعر به خريطة
استغرق البحث الأقمار الصناعية خريطة للمنطقة التي تبين نوع من التضاريس مكان وقوع الزلزال
USGS Shaking map
USGS الزلازل التاريخية الخريطة
USGS خريطة المخاطر الزلزالية
QuakeSOS   و QuakeSOS مجانا و تطبيقات آي فون التي وضعتها Vervaeck أرمان, مؤسس تبليغ عن الزلازل. التطبيق الفوري يبسط مجموعة الاتصال مع الأصدقاء وأفراد الأسرة (مع موقعك GPS الدقيق) ويتم تغذية المستخدمين مع أخبار عن زلزال. و 0.99 دولار أمريكي سيتم إصدار QuakeSOS   دعم أنشطة الزلازل SOS.
a 
الزلزال Report.com العناوين على تويتر
@ OnlyQuakeNews : الحصول على جميع عناوين المقالات الزلزال report.com دينا + تحديثات منتظمة حول الأحداث الجارية
@ QuakeSOS : الزلزال report.com الأخبار + الإخطارات التلقائي للزلزال من الزلازل USGS M 4.0 أو أعلى ، مع التركيز على الزلازل في أميركا والمجال المحيط الهادئ (4 and up) والكثير من بقية دول اوتصللم (5 and up). أنشئ هذا الحساب لدينا وQuakeSOS QuakeSOS   تطبيقات آي فون
@ ShakingEarth : الزلزال report.com الأخبار + الإخطارات التلقائي للزلزال من الزلازل EMSC M 4.0 أو أعلى ، مع التركيز على الزلازل في أوروبا وآسيا / الشرق الأوسط المجال (4 and up) والكثير من بقية دول اوتصللم (5 and up). أنشئت أصلا لتحفيز هذا الحساب لدينا حساب الفيسبوك
@ QuakeMaps : الزلزال report.com صحفي مع الإخطارات رسم خرائط لجميع الزلازل M 3.0 وأعلى من جميع أنحاء العالم عبر EMSC وUSGS. تم إنشاء هذا الحساب عن http لدينا://www.quake - maps.com الموقع
لم أشعر أنه – وقد شعرت – Το تشديدκανα αισθقνεται – أنا آسف – 我的确感到了 – 私はそれを感じていました- شعرت أنه – Bunu hissلم أشعرلم أشعر أنه









البلد والموقع 
 ?حيث تخبرنا في المواقع التي شعرت بالزلزال 



البريد الإلكتروني (إلا إذا كنت ترغب) 
 ?عنوان البريد الالكتروني قد يساعدنا اذا كنا طلب للحصول على تفاصيل إضافية حول تجربتك. هذا الحقل ليس إجباريا. الأمر متروك لكم لإعطاء ذلك أم لا.



MMI الثاني (ضعيف جدا تهتز) 
  ?الناس :يشعر به في بقية الأشخاص, في الطوابق العلوية أو وضعها بشكل إيجابي. 



MMI الثالث (ضعف يهز) 
  ?الناس : ورأى في الداخل; قد الكائنات معلقة تتأرجح, مشابهة لمرور الشاحنات الخفيفة الاهتزاز, ويمكن تقدير المدة, قد لا يتم الاعتراف بأنه زلزال. 



MMI الرابع (الهز الخفيف) 
  ?الناس :لاحظت عموما في الداخل ولكن ليس خارج. قد أيقظ ينامون قليلا. ويمكن تشبيه الاهتزاز لمرور حركة المرور الكثيفة, أو لهزة للجسم ثقيل سقوط او ضرب مبنى.
التجهيزات :الأبواب والنوافذ حشرجة الموت. الأواني الزجاجية والفخارية حشرجة الموت. قد تكون السوائل في الأوعية فتح منزعجة قليلا. قد يقف والسيارات الصخور.
الهياكل :الجدران وإطارات للمباني, والقواطع والأسقف المعلقة في المباني التجارية, قد تكون سمعت صرير ل. 



MMI الخامس (معتدل يهز) 
  ?الناس :ورأى عموما خارج, والجميع تقريبا في الداخل. معظم الذين ينامون ايقظ. قلة من الناس بالذعر.
التجهيزات :مشردون الأجسام الصغيرة غير المستقرة أو اضطراب. ويمكن تقسيم بعض الأواني الزجاجية والفخارية. صور معلقة على الحائط تدق. قد فتح الأبواب المتأرجحة. قد أبواب خزانة المضمون المصيد المغناطيسي المفتوح. الساعات البندول توقف, بداية, أو تغيير سعر.
الهياكل :تصدع بعض النوافذ شاشة العرض الكبيرة. متصدع ومواعيد المباريات القليلة المرحاض خزف.



MMI السادس (قوي يهز) 
  ?الناس
يشعر به كل. قلق الناس والحيوانات. تشغيل العديد من خارج. الصعوبة في المشي باطراد.
التجهيزات :سقوط الأشياء من الرفوف. صور من سقوط الجدران. نقل بعض الأثاث في الطوابق السلس, تحركت بعض غير المضمونين قائمة بذاتها المواقد. الأواني الزجاجية والفخارية المكسورة. انقلبت الأثاث غير مستقرة جدا. كنيسة ومدرسة صغيرة أجراس. الأجهزة تتحرك على مقاعد البدلاء أو قمم الجدول. خزائن لحفظ الملفات أو "من السهل تزلق" قد فتح الأدراج (أو إيقاف).
الهياكل :الأضرار التي لحقت المباني طفيف مع انخفاض مستوى. بعض الجص الجص أو الأسمنت يسقط. النوافذ المكسورة شاشة العرض الكبيرة. الأضرار التي لحقت المداخن المحلية القليلة ضعيفة, قد يكون بعض الخريف.
بيئة :الأشجار والشجيرات يهز, تسمع أو حفيف. ويمكن فكها المواد السائبة من الأرض المنحدرة, ز. القائمة الشرائح, المنحدرات الكاحل, لوحة خشبية الشرائح.



MMI السابع (قوي جدا هز) 
  ?الناسإنذار عام. شهدت صعوبة في الوقوف. لاحظت من قبل السائقين الذين قد وقف motorcar.
التجهيزات :رنين أجراس كبيرة. التحركات على الأرضيات والأثاث السلس, قد تتحرك على الأرض المفروشة بالسجاد. خسائر كبيرة لمحتويات المباني الهشة.
الهياكل :غير المدعومة الحجر والطوب الجدران المتشققة. انخفاض مستوى تصدع المباني مع بعض التعديلات طوب يقع. حالات قليلة من حدوث اضرار في المباني العادية من صنعة. Unbraced حواجز, unbraced الطوب الجملونات, والحلي المعمارية الخريف. تسقيف البلاط, قد يكون اندفاع وخاصة البلاط الحرف. العديد من مداخن المنازل بأضرار غير المدعومة, الوقوع في كثير من الأحيان من خط السقف. خزانات المياه النوع الأول انفجر. حالات قليلة من الأضرار التي لحقت القشرة القرميد والجص أو الأسمنت بطانات مقرها. اسطوانات الماء المقيد (المياه الساخنة اسطوانات) قد تحرك وتسرب. تصدع بعض النوافذ المشتركة. علقت السقوف المتضررة.
بيئة :المياه العكرة التي جعلت اثارة الطين. الشرائح الصغيرة مثل السقوط من الرمل والحصى البنوك, والصخور الصغيرة يسقط من المنحدرات الشديدة وقصاصات. حالات تسوية غير مجمعة أو الرطب, أو التربة الضعيفة. بعض الشقوق تظهر في الدقيقة الأرض المنحدرة. بضع حالات لتسييل (أنا. صغير المياه والرمال وقائع مشابهة).



MMI الثامن (الهز الشديد) 
  ?الناس
قد التنبيه نهج الذعر. التوجيهية للتأثر والسيارات.

الهياكل :
انخفاض مستوى المباني بأضرار جسيمة, انهيار بعض. صنعة المباني العادية التالفة, انهيار جزئي مع بعض. عززت البناء أو المباني الخرسانية التي تضررت في بعض الحالات. حالات قليلة من الأضرار التي لحقت بالمباني والجسور صممت وبنيت لمقاومة الزلازل. الملتوية الآثار والدبابات قبل 1976 وارتفاع مداخن المصنع أو أسقط. بعض لوحات البناء قبل 1965 بدأت أعمال الحفر التالفة. A - 1980 عدد قليل آخر من الطوب القشرة التالفة. أكوام الأخشاب التالفة من المنازل المتضررة. قد لا منازل المضمون أسس التحرك. مداخن المنازل تضررت معظم غير المدعومة, أدناه بعض سقف الخط, جلبت العديد من أسفل.

بيئة :
الشقوق تظهر على المنحدرات الشديدة والرطوبة في الارض. صغيرة على الشرائح المعتدلة في قصاصات على جوانب الطرق والحفريات غير معتمد. صغير المياه والرمال وقائع مشابهة المترجمة الوحشي المتاخمة لنشر الجداول, القنوات, البحيرات, الخ.



MMI التاسع (الهز العنيف) 
  ?الهياكل
العديد من المباني دمرت القياسية المنخفضة. المباني بأضرار بالغة الاتقان العادية, انهيار بعض. عززت البناء أو المباني بأضرار ملموسة, انهيار جزئي مع بعض. المباني والجسور صممت وبنيت لمقاومة الزلازل التي تضررت في بعض الحالات, بعض الإطارات مع مرونة بأضرار جسيمة. تلف أو تشوه دائم لبعض المباني والجسور, صممت وبنيت على معايير الاستخدام العادي. تحولت منازل للأسس التي لم يتم تأمين الخروج. الاغشيه سقوط الطوب وفضح الإطارات.

بيئة : 
تشقق الأرض واضح. ساحق عامة على المنحدرات. آثار تسييل مكثفة وأكثر انتشارا, مع الانتشار الأفقي كبيرة وتدفق تيارات المتاخمة للانزلاق, القنوات, البحيرات, الخ.



 
 



كتابة تجربتك و / أو النص إضافية هنا :  ?يرجى وصف ما لديك خبرة مع الكلمات الخاصة بك. وتقبل أيضا لغات أخرى. 








 







تعليقات الفيسبوك:



تعليقات 


Lake Monticello Virginia وتقول: 

سبتمبر 1, 2011 في 6:12 pm


Lake Monticello, فرجينيا: A little after 5 في. سبتمبر 1, 2011 – awakened by the now familiar slow rumble getting louder and louder as well as shaking lasting a few seconds – not sure exactly how to get used to this.


رد 



Mary Meyer وتقول: 

سبتمبر 1, 2011 في 2:06 pm


I know you find it hard to believe I felt it in Indiana, but that’s what was so….gentle rocking and noticing the time 5:10 and then reading that an aftershock happened at 5:09. When the 1st one happened on 8/23, people felt it near my area and even further west though I can’t say I felt anything then.


رد 



أرماند Vervaeck وتقول: 

سبتمبر 1, 2011 في 2:14 pm


Mary, thank you for additional comment – أرمان


رد 





patricia وتقول: 

سبتمبر 1, 2011 at 10:30 في


I was driving last night when I felt a shaking in the car while waiting at a light. It last just seconds. This happened 08/31/11 in Frederick, md around 11:25 pm.


رد 



Lucy وتقول: 

أغسطس 26, 2011 في 3:10 pm


I felt the aftershock also at 1:08 am in Columbia, MD


رد 



Teresa وتقول: 

أغسطس 25, 2011 at 9:17 في


I am located in Grandy, NC and felt a light tremor lasting not more than 2-3 seconds at 3:40 صباحا. What is the likelyhood that this was an aftershock? Have there been any other reports or signs of activity? I realize not many people would be awake at this time to make such a report, but the first time it happened I felt a strong shaking for about 8-10 ثانية. I questioned whether it was just me and said nothing. Now I can’t help but wonder.


رد 








الكلام عقلك إلغاء الرد

اسم *
البريد الإلكتروني *
الموقع
 






الرجاء إدخال الرموز من الصورة








ترجمة
كما واللغة الافتراضية تحرير الترجمة
تلقي لدينا "جديد المقالات اليومية" النشرة الإخبارية + خبر عاجل الرئيسية - انقر للحصول على مثال

 
الوقت المنقضي منذ وقوع الزلزال الأحمر CatDat مشاركة :
48 أيام 5 ساعات 39 دقائق 38 ثانية






 الزلزال Report.com ملخص المقالات في موقعك ?
استخدامنا محتوى خاص القطعه - انقر هنا لمشاهدة مثال ورمز

مشاركة القطعة المشاركات حدثت
قوي جدا (عميق) زلزال سومطرة أدناه, أندونيسيا - 12 صبي عمره قتل في انهيار منزلقائمة الزلازل سبتمبر 6, 2011قائمة الزلازل سبتمبر 5, 2011 - زلزال قوي جدا تحت سومطرة فرجينيا الزلزال "وقد شعرت و" reports - 112 تقاريرقائمة الزلازل سبتمبر 4, 2011عمق الزلزال المدمر في فانواتو + هزة ارتدادية في سبتمبر 4/5سرب زلزال يضرب جمهورية التشيك / ألمانيا الحدود - سرب جديد في سبتمبر 4زلزال كولورادو / نيو مكسيكو, الولايات المتحدة الأمريكية - قدرت الأضرار : 100,000 دولار أمريكي + تلف الصورقائمة الزلازل سبتمبر 3, 2011 + زلزال هائل في فانواتوالأخبار المتعلقة الزلزال 2011-09-1سرب زلزال الألمانية - التشيكية المنطقة الحدودية. لمعرفة المزيد عن الزلزال 3 سبتمبرماذا يسافر أسرع من زلزال ? تخمين ...قائمة الزلازل سبتمبر 2, 2011 - المهم الزلازل في الاسكا والأرجنتينزلزال هائل على سفوح الاندساس جزر غير مأهولة في ألاسكاتوابع ولاية فرجينيا + 116 "وقد شعرت و" تقارير




فئة محددة RSS
 الزلازل القوية المدمرة يومية قائمة الزلازل أخبار يومية تتعلق الزلزال الزلازل والأضرار محدودة الزلازل Dangeropus حجم 6 أو أكثر الزلازل تأهب جميع الموادبواسطة نصائح والخدع
 أحدث المشاركات المنشورة

قائمة الزلازل سبتمبر 6, 2011
قوي جدا (عميق) زلزال سومطرة أدناه, أندونيسيا – 12 صبي عمره قتل في انهيار منزل
قائمة الزلازل سبتمبر 5, 2011 – زلزال قوي جدا تحت سومطرة
عمق الزلزال المدمر في فانواتو + هزة ارتدادية في سبتمبر 4/5
قائمة الزلازل سبتمبر 4, 2011
الأخبار المتعلقة الزلزال 2011-09-1
قائمة الزلازل سبتمبر 3, 2011 + زلزال هائل في فانواتو
ماذا يسافر أسرع من زلزال ? تخمين …
زلزال هائل على سفوح الاندساس جزر غير مأهولة في ألاسكا
قائمة الزلازل سبتمبر 2, 2011 – المهم الزلازل في الاسكا والأرجنتين
زلزال معتدل في أكبر منطقة لوس انجليس – الإبلاغ عن أي أضرار أو إصابات
توابع ولاية فرجينيا + 116 “وقد شعرت و” تقارير
البراكين النشطة في العالم من 24/08/2011 إلى 30/08/2011
قائمة الزلازل سبتمبر 1, 2011 + حجم 4.2 زلزال في منطقة لوس انجليس
حفر لفهم أسرار صدع سان أندرياس (فيديو)
قائمة الزلازل أغسطس 31, 2011
زلزال ضعيف ضحلة جدا يخيف وسط سان فرانسيسكو
قوي جدا “عميق” الزلزال في بحر باندا (تيمور الشرقية – أندونيسيا)
قائمة الزلازل أغسطس 30, 2011
آخر ثوران جبل إتنا الجميلة (إيطاليا) أغسطس 29 2011 + أشرطة الفيديو


شعبية المشاركات

قائمة الزلازل أغسطس 23, 2011
2 الزلازل, ضحل, كانوا خائفين في جارد وآرديش, فرنسا
اليابان توهوكو تسونامي والزلزال : ان عدد القتلى هو التسلق مرة أخرى!
زلزال كولورادو / نيو مكسيكو, الولايات المتحدة الأمريكية - قدرت الأضرار : 100,000 دولار أمريكي + تلف الصور
هائل 7+ الزلازل بالقرب من جزيرة فانواتو إيفات (أغسطس 20/21, 2011
قائمة الزلازل يوليو 25, 2011
توابع ولاية فرجينيا + 116 "هل شعرت أنه" تقارير
النشاط الزلزال أدناه هييرو ش (بركان), جزر الكناري, إسبانيا
زلزال قوي يهز جدا وخطيرة ولاية فرجينيا - نظرة عامة على الضرر
فيديو انفجار اليوم (أغسطس 20) بركان إتنا في (صقلية, إيطاليا) + الانفجارات الفيديو الأخرى







 
 
اتصل
     - الزلزال Report.com هو جزء من الزلازل SOS, زلزال إغاثة غير ربحية-  حقوق النشر  © 2011 ·  مدعوم من 123الفتح الإسلامي 
        · سجل في













