Potresa Virginia + 116 “Sam to osjećao” izvješća

Potres izvješćeNajbolji nezavisni potres izvještavanje site u svijetu
Ogroman štete 2011
Umjereno oštećenje 2011
Važno 2010 Potresa

Christchurch 09/2010
Kraljevo, Srbija
Indonezija Tsunami


CATDAT 2010

Potresi oštećenje 2010
Povreda Vulkani 2010






Dom
Oko
Smrtonosna potresa 2011

Christchurch, Novi Zeland 22/02
Yunnan, Kina 10/03
Japan Tsunami 11/03
Tachilek, Mianmar 24/03
Lorca, Španjolska 11/05
Sımav, Turska 19/05
Nabro vulkan, Eritreja 12/06
Christchurch, Novi Zeland 14/06
Kirgistan / Uzbekistan 19/07


Spremnost
Razumijevanje …

Potres uvjetima
Razumijevanje …


Popisi, Vijesti, Zemlje

Popisi i vijesti 2011
Članci po zemljama


 


Potresa Virginia + 116 “Sam to osjećao” izvješća
Zadnja izmjena: Rujan 2, 2011 na 4:35 am by Armand Vervaeck and James Daniell 
Rujan 1, 2011  Po Armand Vervaeck and James Daniell  
Newest update : many additional I Have Felt It reports
Potres pregled : Slab  to moderate aftershocks are rattling the Virginia earthquake area. Mi ne očekujemo nikakve dodatne štete, ali na temelju izvješća Filc, potresa su osjetili u ograničenom području oko mineralnih / Louis epicentar.
Read also :  Vrlo jaki i opasni potres pogodio Virginia – šteta pregled
Read also :  Razumijevanje Magnituda 5.8 Virginia potresa (Kolovoz 23, 2011)
Read also :  Potresa Virginia + 116 “I Have Felt It” izvješća
Read also : Video selection of the Virginia earthquake by Earthquake-Report.com
Read also : Što putuje brže od potresa ? Nagađati …
We ask people who have felt this earthquake to share their information with our many readers (also from your area). Please use the "I Have Felt it" donji obrazac.
Direct epicenter area from the August 25 posttraumatski - Panoramio image courtesy: Idawriter
Ažuriranje 01/09 – 05:09  PM Local time : 
M 3.4      2011/09/01 09:09     Dubina 4.9 km     VIRGINIA
	05:09:37 Sati u epicentru
One of the more powerful aftershocks.
	6 km (4 milja) SSE (156°) iz Mineral, VA and 13 km (8 milja) SE (125°) iz Louisa, VA
Satelitska karta veće epicentar području
Felt reports from this aftershock :
Charlottesville, VA : 5:09na 8 seconds of light shaking – enough to rattle the windows, wake us, and the dogs.
Locust Grove, VA – Lasted approx 20 – 30 sek
Spotsylvania, VA – Felt like the house was going over rumble strips on the highway…lasted about 30 sekundi.
Scottsville, VA – Lasted perhaps 7 or 8 sekundi.
New Canton, VA – I had just awoken and felt the house shake. There was a slight "boom" as if something had hit the house and then I heard the windowframes rattling and heard the rumble.  This is the 4th aftershock I have felt/heard at home since the quake last week.
Montpelier, VA – Awakened by loud rumbling sound.
Oldenburg, IN – I was in bed and it was shaking slightly–for what felt like a very long minute. I looked at my clock and saw it was 5:10 na (IS : Hard to believe as we speak of a distance to the epicenter of 400 milja!)
Cartersville, VA : We have been getting moderate shaking every night since the bigger Quake.They sound like train coal cars stopping, lots of banging the louder the bang the worst in the shaken of the house. It goes by with the loudest bang with a lifting or wave and then slowly the banging goes away in the distance ,like a train going down the train tracks.
Nelson, VA : Rattled my windows.
Richmond, VA : At approximately 5 am this morning, Sept 1, my husband and I woke up as our ceiling fan and windows were shaking for about 30 seconds.  It was pretty strong to wake us up but not enough for us to run out of the house.
Goochland County, VA : Felt quake around 5 am this morning. Had to straighten pictures on the wall again!
Petersburg, VA : Svjetlo trese
Alexandria, VA : Woke up to its effect of causing large mirror to fall and shatter in bathroom.
Manakin Sabot, VA : It was about 5:10 this morning…I woke up to my bed shaking and the house rattling. A very disturbing thing to wake up to!
Lake Monticello, VA : Awakened suddenly by fairly strong rumbling & shaking a little after 5 na. Rujan 1, 2011.
Unionville, VA : My clock said 5:04 but its all the same.. loud rumble, lasted about half a minute or so and the shaking of the walls and floors last almost as long.. I heard the rumble a few seconds before i felt the house shake. So, i got up and checked on everyone and i was the only one who was woke up from the loud rumble.
So i went back to bed and said man i hope thats the end of it… That is the third one to wake me from a dead sleep. The one just before 1:00 am and the one the next morning just after 1:00 am last week were the first two to wake me up out of 3 times total. Now i just wish i knew it was the end of it! as i don't like them at night!! LOL.
Ažuriranje 29/08 – 11:48  PM Local time :  Another aftershock going along with some light shaking has struck the Virginia earthquake area.  Epicenter on almost the same location than the mainshock, close to Mineral and Louisa.
	Veličina : 2.6 @ Dubina 8.5 km. 48 km (29 milja) ESE of Charlottesville, Virginia and 56 km (34 milja) SW za Fredericksburg, Virdžinija.
Felt report(s) :
Charlotteville, Va : In Charlottesville near Pantops area, August 30th I felt another tremor around 11:20pm last night, August 29th…..lasted about 10 seconds.  Did anyone else feel it? – MMI III
Ažuriranje 27/08 – 11:16  PM Local time :  A weak 2.7 magnitude aftershock struck the area at a depth of 5.1 km at 11:16 PM on August 27.  The epicenter was located closest to Louisa i Mineral i 42 km od Charlottesville, VA
Felt Reports from this aftershock :
Orange, VA – I felt a very weak aftershake in Gordonsville, Orange County, VA, at around 11:30 or so. Gordonsville is located only a short distance from Mineral which was the epicenter of last week's earthquake, and I have felt several aftershakes since then. Every time there is an aftershake, I can hear the underground explosion, but the sound is extremely low. I think we also had an aftershake earlier this evening, though I am not 100% sure. I am, however, positive that we had an aftershake at 11:30 here in Gordonsville. Even my cat reacted visibly to it. – MMI III
Fluvanna, VA – MMI VI Strong shaking indicated. (IS : Fluvanna is situated approx. 20 km od epicentra)
Fluvanna, VA – At about 11:10 sati. Sunday the 28th. We are real close to Louisa County Virginia.  Oko 2 miles south of US 250 east . Two tremors back to back
Ažuriranje : So far we have received I Have Felt It reports with a max. umjereni potres (MMI V), which corresponds with the theoretical USGS values. A V MMI is described as a moderate shaking with possible light damage at vulnerable buildings. Light damage is like cracks in walls, fallen tiles, itd..
Ažuriranje : Aftershocks likes this one are perfectly normal after a 5.9 earthquake. Occasionally an isolated 5+ quake might be possible too. A greater aftershock than the initial 5.9 is also possible, but the chance on it is very exceptional.
Ažuriranje :  Based on the many Felt reports we are receiving we do expect at max. some additional minimal damage within a radius of 5 km od epicentra (which means Cuckoo alone).
Ažuriranje : Epicenter of the earthquake below Cuckoo and approx. 8 km from Mineral
Ažuriranje : according to the theoretical calculations of USGS the max. Felt experience will be a moderate shaking : V MMI
"Ja ga Filc" izvješća
	MMI vrijednosti (ako je to indicirano) iza teksta (III: Slab potres, IV Svjetlo trese, V Umjeren potres, VI Jaka trese, VII vrlo jak potres)
Virdžinija - i WAS SITTING DOWNSTAIRS WHEN i HEARD THE SAME NOISE i HEARD THE 23 WHEN THE OTHER QUAKE KIT THEN MY DAUGHTER ASKED IF i FELT THE HOUSE SHAKE AGAIN? mY WIFE SAID SHE ALSO FELT IT SHAKE – MMI III
Maryland - I was just about to fall asleep when I heard everything on my shelves shaking and then began to feel it. It was all too firmiliar considering it just happened here 2 days ago. – MMI IV
Culpeper, Virginia – 1:08na, Četvrtak 25 aug 2011 light aftershock in Culpeper, Virginia – MMI III
Arlington, VA – Getting to be an expert on what an earthquake feels like!  This occurred at about 1:05 AM. – MMI III
Charlottesville va – 1:08 na  shaking for approx 15 sek…   not as bad as a few days ago but fairly scarry.  My dog howled before I noticed it. – MMI IV
Dale City (Woodbridge) – At approximately 1:10 A.M. na 08/25/2011 light aftershock felt in Dale City (Woodbridge), lasted about  five seconds. – MMI III
Burke, VA – At around 1:10 AM on August 25, 2011 – MMI III
Virdžinija - it felt like an after shock from the earthquake on the 23rd august. – III
Palmyra, Virdžinija – mild aftershock from 8/23/11 – IV
Thornburg, VA – Light shaking indicated  – MMI IV
Falls Church, VA – Bed shook, heard walls crack the way they do when there are strong winds. Did not see any reactions from our rabbit(who lives indoors). – IV
Virdžinija, – 1 am August 25 felt a weak shaking in northern virginia – MMI III
Fredericksburg, VA – Just felt an aftershock about an hour ago in Fredericksburg, VA while on the phone with my son in Afghanistan. Around 1:00 a.m. 8-25-11. – MMI V
Wheaton, MD – I felt an aftershock about 45 minutes ago in Wheaton, MD. – III
Richmond, Virdžinija – Na 1:09 a.m. kolovoza 25, 2011, I felt my entire house shake for approximately 5-10 sekundi. Two minutes later, I felt some very weak tremors. – MMI IV
Virdžinija - me and my family wher upstairs and suddenly right when we put the lights out id say about a moderate earthquake hit us for about 10 seconds we all went downstairs and regrouped id say it was lighter than the 5.9 that hit the east coast on the 23rd or 24th – MMI V
Washington, DC – Just about to fall off to sleep. Awaken by bed shaking (not in a good way either). This aftershock lasted longer than Tuesday's initial earthquake too. This was a rumble feeling that shook my whole house….and I now need a Valium….or 3. – MMI IV
Fredericksburg, VA – I was sitting in the upstairs part of my house and there was significant shaking, as well i happened to be looking out the window at the time and my cat freaked out before it started. – IV
Fredericksburg, VA – Just felt an aftershock about an hour ago in Fredericksburg, VA while on the phone with my son in Afghanistan. Around 1:00 a.m. 8-25-11. – MMI V
Nellysford, Va – light shaking – MMI IV
Stafford, Virdžinija – Aug. 25th, just after 1:00na, Heard noise and then felt my chair shaking back & forth. Didn't last long, and my family seems to have slept through it. – III
PA, – Dozing on the couch in my living room in SW PA w/my cat.  Felt "something" just shake the house rapidly.  Woke up & scared the hell out of both of us.  Thought someone had hit the house and/or was trying to break in.  After ascertaining that everything was ok & no one trying to break in, checked the laptop & sure enough VA was hit w/an aftershook. – MMI IV
Mount Sidney, VA – I was watching television. The clock read 1:10 na. It was less intense than the original quake, but the vibration frequency was about the same. It was just strong enough to shake a DVD off the top of the DVD player. The ceiling fan shook slightly. Two kids and a wife in bed, they didn't feel a thing. – MMI V
Mineral, Va – Was real short, but felt rather violent.  Not sustained like the main earthquake.  Was like a 2 sek. heavy shake or more like a jump feeling for me, like i bounced up outta my couch, then just the dull roar sound with minimal vibration as if bass speakers were maxed – MMI IV
Melfa, VA – I was at work and felt a strong shake.  Everything on the counter rattled and fell in the floor.  It was hard to keep your balance. Everyone looked at me after it was over and all I could say was "I DIDN'T DO IT!" After work my fiance' and I returned home to find that all pictures on the wall and and lamps were in the floor. – VI
Vienna, VA – At about 1:07na, I felt a light shaking that last 5 seconds while lying on couch-I knew it was an earthquake right away.  The dog became very restless and nervous afterwards. IV
Annandale, Va -  I was watching TV in a second floor bedroom, felt an initial slight jolt and immediately knew what it was.  Could feel the chair vibrating and could hear a rattling noise from vibrating furniture and/or other objects in the room.  I Put my hand on side of the dresser and could definitely feel vibrations coming up through the floor.  It lasted at least 20 sekundi; definitely not a normal occurrence! It happened about 1:08 na 1:10 AM, 25 Aug., 2011. – IV
Stafford, VA -  iwas playing my DSi when all of a sudden i heard a vibrating noise… then the house lightly shook for about 5-10 seconds and iwas thinking, "please, not again…" but then it stopped. yay. :p -  MMI III
Lynchburg, Virdžinija – Felt aftershock at 1:09am House shook  was on second floor of house and the chair I was in moved up and down.  Was like the floor was bowing up and down. Lasted about 15/20 sec.   This one was stronger than the first aftershock we had yesterday. – IV
Bethesda, MA – Felt this one too, my watch showed 1:09 AM EST by the time tremors ended. Felt it all, just like the one on Tuesday, as I was sitting in my bed, working on the laptop, just as Tuesday. Considering earthquakes are not very common for this area, was pretty scary. The noise of the windows vibrating here in the house was creepy, both earlier and on Tuesday … One of the 2 cats started miaowing aggresively right after the quake. – V
Towson, MD – I felt week shaking about 1:10 am Thursday 8/25/2011.  I was laying in bed. It was for few seconds, was going to wake up everybody in the  house as I realized what it was but then it stopped – III
Palmyra, VA – Woke just after 1am on Thursday, Aug 25 to moderate shaking – heard the house crack like in strong winds first.  No apparent damage, just a little movement of some items.  – MMI V
Philadelphia, PA -  was about to fall asleep when I felt the bed shake in a wave motion and items on a wall shelf were rattling.  Oko 10 sekundi, time 1:17am.  Very strange feeling – V
Falls Church , VA – I was laying in bed and the shaking woke me up a little after 1am today, Četvrtak, Kolovoz 25, 2011 -  V
Amelia Court House, VA – Just a few minutes after 1:00 AM I awoke to bed shaking, heard some clinking (probably dishes in sink).  Our dogs were whinning, so got out of bed and felt a few slight waves of movement – IV
Virdžinija, ?? – I was in bed reading approximately 1:10 am.  My husband was asleep beside me.  When the house started rattling I thought, "Oh boy…again?" It didn't last more three-five seconds but I asked Ken, "Did you feel it?  We just had another quake."  I woke him, the tremor did not.  Glad to know that others felt it also and my imagination wasn't working overtime! – IV
McLean, VA – Light shaking indicated – MMI IV
Maryland, Aspen Hill - Sitting in my living room around 1am, I felt light trembling similar to what we experienced July 2010 when a 3.4 magnitude tremor occurred with epicenter about 20 miles from my house.  Sounded like a large truck speeding by but I live on a narrow side street that would not have that type of traffic that time of night – III
Richmond, Virdžinija – I felt the aftershock of the earthquake early this morning; I watched as my iron danced about half an inch from its original position on my ironing board in my room. The picture frames shook too, but there was no damage to anything. It sounded like a caravan of 18-wheeler trucks drove by right outside the window. I thought it was another earthquake, because I could feel it shaking from deep within my chest, which does not occur when a truck or something big goes by. My roommate, who was down the hall, didn't feel anything – III
Lanexa, VA -  At about 1:05am we felt the whole house shake with some items falling off of a she'll in the bedroom. It lasted maybe 10 or so seconds – V
Virdžinija 22920 – 1:12 am awakened by shaking and noise.  duration of about 15 sekundi – III
Maryland - Not able to sleep, my 14 year old son and I felt a significant earthquake around 1:15 a.m. this morining, 8/25/2011 – MMI V
Frederick, Maryland – I was sleeping at the time, and i was awaken by feeling that something violently threw my head back i was quite scared and i did not know what it was until this morning – VII
Columbia, MD – Just falling asleep at about 1:00am last night (Aug 25, 2011) when the floors started creaking and we thought someone might be in our house. Then other items started shaking too and we knew it must be an aftershock from the Mineral, VA earthquake 2 days ago. We've read that this aftershock was a 4.8 and located close the original epicenter – V
Eldersburg, MD – I was awakened on 5/24 at approx 12:45 a.m. and on 5/25 at approx. 1:07 a.m. by the rattle of the doors on an old stand in my bedroom.  I did not feel any shaking in the bed, just heard the rattle of the doors that woke me up. I have lived in this house 16 years and never experienced such rattle.  III: Weak Shaking
Bethesda, MA – Felt this one too, my watch showed 1:09 AM EST by the time tremors ended. Felt it all, just like the one on Tuesday, as I was sitting in my bed, working on the laptop, just as Tuesday. Considering earthquakes are not very common for this area, was pretty scary. The noise of the windows vibrating here in the house was creepy, both earlier and on Tuesday … One of the 2 cats started miaowing aggresively right after the quake. – V
Towson, MD – I felt week shaking about 1:10 am Thursday 8/25/2011.  I was laying in bed. It was for few seconds, was going to wake up everybody in the  house as I realized what it was but then it stopped. – III
Monroe, Va – Woke me up, Strong aftershock felt about 1:08 a.m. in Monroe, Va. for a couple of seconds.
Baltimore, MD – I was finally drifting to sleep after 24 hours of sleeplessness and suddenly jolted awake as the bed shook and several things in my bedroom moved across their shelves. In other parts of our home small items were out of place or knocked over. Not nearly as bad as Tuesday's quake but I certainly won't be sleeping well for a while… – IV
Apple Grove, VA – We are 3 miles from the epicenter.  Before the quake there were 2 light, short tremors.  One around midnight, the next just a few minutes before – V
White Oak, Montgomery County, MD – I was awakened at 1:08 am by light-to-moderate shaking, and realized immediately that we were experiencing an aftershock.  I was not in the same location (my bed) when the original quake occurred, so I cannot compare the two events (in fact, I was walking around downtown Rockville, MD, and didn't detect it at all), however, the intensity and duration of this event was slighty less than what I felt last year when I was also awakened from sleep by an earthquake which was centered in Germantown, MD. – IV
Mineral VA – I was a sleep and the house started shaking and rumbling again.  It was about 1:06 na, will this soon stop? – MMI VI (Strong Shaking)
Lynchburg, VA – At a little after 1:00 am I was awakened by my shaking bed and pictures and a slight rumble.  I thought "here we go again!"  Scary….. – IV
Lynchburg, VA – Awakened just after 1 AM Thursday a.m. by shaking and by very strange house sounds…nothing I can liken to anything I've heard in the house before (and I wasn't at home for the Tuesday afternoon quake).  Shaking was continuous but house sounds came in several waves over several seconds.  At its peak, I also heard a noise from outside…possibly our deck rattling – V
Reston, VA – 1:07 am August 25, 2011 – same sound and shaking for about 10 sekundi – V
Alexandria, VA – 1:08 AM Thursday, August 25.  The house-shaking-noise was minor this time, but I felt the movement under my feet as I was sitting at my computer.  The dogs did not react this time at all, but it was still unsettling (it lasted quite awhile). – IV
Bumpass, VA – I live just outside the epicenter area and last night i woke up at 1:08 to my house shaking.. it felt like how a cheap hotel would shake as a train goes by. it was strong enough to wake me but not major. basically just vibrated my house. – IV-V
Stafford - Woke me up at about 1:08.  Everyone else slept through it – V
Amherst, Viginia – IV MMI indicated (light shaking)
Arlington, VA – about 1.14 am I feel shaking and ratteling in the house, Alexandra – MMI IV
Prince William County, Manassas, VA – I was asleep.  I felt the bed shaking.  My husband woke me up and told me we had just experienced an aftershock.  I think it lasted about 5 sekundi (very brief). – IV
College Park, MD – I got up at around 1:00am to feed my grandson and felt what I thought was a large truck passing by but the shaking became stronger and my home began to shake, I knew then it was an earthquake.  It only lasted a few seconds  – MMI IV
Woodbridge, VA – I woke up to slight shaking at 1:08 na. It lasted about 15 sekundi- time for me to wake up, get out of bed, and move to my door – IV
Mineral, VA – I live 3 miles from the center of that aftershock and I thought tt wasn't as long as bad as the 4.2 from the night before.  It is all the little rumbling all night long that makes it interesting. – MMI V
Stafford VA – I heard a long (maybe 30 sekundi) low steady rumbling at 12:45. My time seems to be off from everyone else so I am wondering if I am wrong? It was either an aftershock or Marine Base Quantico doing some sort of bombing at that time of the morning, which I doubt. I got up to look around – nothing shaking, just vibrating with this low rumbling. It lasted too long to be a low flying plane or truck rumbling by, so I guess aftershock – III
Fredericksburg, Va -  I was sleeping and woke up because of the shaking. Definitely not as strong as a few days ago, but enough to wake me up. I sat up and looked at my phone, it was 1:10na – MMI III
Toano Virdžinija – I noticed rattling while laying in bed then heard my closet doors rattle and felt the bed shake around 1:10 – V
Falmouth, Virdžinija – Felt shaking 1:09 na, ceiling fans and overhead light rattling, bots slept through it – IV
Richmond VA – I was sitting on the couch watching TV, and everything sorta vibrated for about 20 sekundi, It felt similar to the first one to me, although I was outside the first time….around 1am – IV
Tappahannock VA – We felt the aftershock it rattled our ceilings
Cockeysville/Hunt Valley, Maryland – I was in bed and it was exactly 1:09 a.m August 25th.  It woke me up and there appeared to be lines running across the TV.    But i sure felt it. I looked at the clock for the time.  It did not last as long as the Earthquake on Tuesday, Aug. 23rd – MMI VI
Fredericksburg, Va – I was sleeping and woke up because of the shaking. Definitely not as strong as a few days ago, but enough to wake me up. I sat up and looked at my phone, it was 1:10na – III
Triangle, VA – MMI IV = light shaking
Rockville, MD – Watching TV in bed when room started to shake for about 5-10 seconds at 1:09na. Nothing too crazy – MMI IV
Roanoke, VA – Kolovoz 25, 2011–1:09 na–was in bed and the bed swayed for a couple of seconds. – IV
Green Bay VA – I was sitting on my couch watching tv around 1am and the house started shaking. Unlike the initial quake this one made the dishes in my cabinets rattle. It lasted maybe 20-30 seconds but didn't wake anyone else in the house up. This one was quieter than the initial one as well. There was an aftershock or something a few hours after the one on the 23rd but even though everyone was awake nobody felt it but me and my dogs. I barely even felt it. – III
Bumpass, VA – 11:27 am felt short aftershock about 4 sekundi….just want it to stop. We are just a few short miles from Mineral, where our kids attend school. Still unsettling! – MMI IV
Roanoke, Virginia -  I woke up to use the bathroom at 1:00 am on 5/25…just as I started to drift back to sleep I heard our windows begin to rattle loudly and the noticed the bed shaking.  The tremor only lasted for about 3 or 5 seconds.  My husband adn 3 year old both slept through it.  I also had a 6 year old student that was knocked out of his bed last night by the aftershock. – MMI V
Crystal City, VA – Slight aftershock at 1:08na, 1:14, i 1:20am.  House made sounds like with a strong wind blowing. Nothing fell off shelfs as they did during earthquake.  Getting kind of stressed over it. Not moving to West coast! – III
MD - Woke up at about 1 AM by my beagle whimpering and digging at her crate. Shaking started afterward – V
Clifton, Virdžinija – Our family was sleeping around 1:00 a:m.  I awoke to the bed shaking and instantly knew it was an aftershock. My husband felt it as well. Our children said they were not awakened by it.  It was not anywhere close to what we experienced on Tuesday but I would describe it as light to moderate shaking.  I'm sure it would have seemed greater if you were awake and standing or sitting rather than lying down when it occurred. – V
Mineral VA – Crazy Like the beginning of the 5.9 but stopped much quicker! Thank goodness – V
Alexandria, VA – Last night, just after 1 a.m., I was awoken by shaking. It felt like a train was going by the house. I woke up my husband and told him I thought we were experiencing an aftershock. He said I was crazy and told me to go back to sleep. Of course, as usual, I was right. – V
East Greenbush, NY -  MMI III (weak shaking) indicated.
Gettysburg, PA – I was on a horseback tour of the Gettysburg National Battlefield at 1:10 pm today (Kolovoz 25) when my horse and at least three in front of me all stumbled (on flat ground) at the same time.  I was wondering if it was because of an aftershock of the Mineral, VA quake.  Thanks. – MMI III
Arlington VA – A little after 1 am I was lying in bed upstairs in a two story house in northwest Arlington, reading.  Heard a low hum and then felt light to moderate shaking, doors rattling gently in door frames, bed rocking very slightly–much like a train were going by a few houses away.  Not sure how long it went on, but more than 5 seconds.  Did not wake my husband or son. – IV
Culpeper, VA – yo estaba acostada en mi coma cuando de repente empeso a bibrrar muy rapido y pense q era la labadora pero me quede pensando yo no estoy labando y de repente empeso a moberse toda la casa y lo unico q se me bino en mente esq era un tenblor senti muvho miedo por mis hijos.
Athens, GA – Woke up to windows rattling at 5:30 AM, Petak, Kolovoz 26, 2011 in Athens – MMI III
Lorton, VA -  I laying in bed reading and thought I felt the wind shaking the townhouse, then realized it was another earthquake.  My son was in
the other room, but said he did not feel anything. It lasted about 10 sekundi. – MMI IV
Burke, Virdžinija – I was in the living room when the aftershock happened. My family members who were asleep didn't really notice it. – MMI III
Erie, Pa – We are in the second story of a office building and one of the plants started shaking and then you could hear the filing cabinets squeaking against eachother. Most people in our office didnt feel it unless they were touching their desks or some other big object. Just before 11am for about 20 sekundi. – MMI III
Ashland, Va – On 23rd I was in Richmond, Va. at Krogers. I started my car because it was so hot and put my groceries in. I noticed that the car was shaking like it had an engine problem and my only worry was "how I was going to fix it". No thought of an erthquake. But on 8/25 at a few minutes after 1:00AM I was at the computer when my chair began to shake and the fax machine(which was not on) began to do it's thing. It was really scary.
Was it an aftershock or another earthquake? (Definitely an aftershock ER)
Greenville, MI – My little terrier was sleeping between my wife and I, when at approximately 1am, she began to whimper and yip quietly, waking me up.  I tried to calm her, thinking she needed to go out, perhaps.  She kept up this behavior for almost ten minutes, then settled down and went back to sleep.  In the meantime, I began to feel my bed vibrate lightly, then growing stronger to the point where I could feel it actually trembling, then subduing over the course of about two minutes.  I awoke my wife, but she had felt nothing.  The next morning, the news mentioned an aftershock had occurred early that morning.  I can only assume that is what I felt. – MMI III
Fredericksburg, VA – I woke up to the house shaking.  The windows rattled and some CD's fell off the shelf.  This was quicker than the first one. – MMI VI
Lynchburg, VA – Sounded like wind was picking up, walls started making creaking noises, bed started rocking. – MMI III
Arlington VA  – A little after 1 am I was lying in bed upstairs in a two story house in northwest Arlington, reading.  Heard a low hum and then felt light to moderate shaking, doors rattling gently in door frames, bed rocking very slightly–much like a train were going by a few houses away.  Not sure how long it went on, but more than 5 seconds.  Did not wake my husband or son. – MMI IV
Madison Heights, VA – about 1:00 am ish heard strange noise, like train rumbling, lasting 15-30 secs, dogs down street started barking prior to rumbling sound, just an eerie feeling, house made noises like settling ceiling made cracking sounds, walls made noises. The train sound is common, since trains hook up in lynchburg everyday, assuming is not always what it is.
Columbia, SC – Sitting on the sofa with someone. They thought I was shaking the sofa. Lasted about a minute. – MMI III
Ashland Virdžinija – Sitting on the couch after dinner I heard rumbling and shaking. My attention turned to the window and it crossed my mind what if then I remembered that a train amtrack runs through thye center of Ashland.Virginia. It crossed my mind that it was an aftershock but I thought probably the train and would I ever get over the fear of a Earthquake every time I heard a train always listning for the whistle is now a constant reassuring sound I lookout for . Resigned to the fact that it was a train I put it out of my mind and went about watching a show on TV. So it really wasnt a surprise that I found out from my friend we had a aftershock and I guessed it was about a 4 pretty lucky guess it was a 4.5 I am getting pretty good at guessing the Richter scale,Earthquakes and a Hurricane all in one week do I dare ask what next? well it all could of been much worse but prayers going out to all the peopke adversly affected. We just have to be prepared these days for any thing and make sure we don't take anything or those close to us for granted. – MMI V
Reston, VA – 4 AM in Reston, VA. A/C is off, & I am the only one up. Definitely felt house shaking–still feeling it. Long time this time. Subtle, but present – MMI IV
Najvažnije Potres podataka:
	Veličina : 4.5
	UTC vrijeme : Četvrtak, Kolovoz 25, 2011 na 05:07:50 UTC
	Lokalno vrijeme epicentar : Četvrtak, Kolovoz 25, 2011 na 01:07:50 Sati u epicentru
	Dubina (Hypocenter) : 5 km
	Geo-mjestu(s) :
	51 km (31 milja) E of Charlottesville, Virdžinija
	58 km (36 milja) Sjeverozapadno od RICHMOND, Virdžinija
 
Linkovi na važne karte
USGS Jeste li osjetiti Karta
Google satelitska karta područja prikazuje vrste terena potresa dogodila
USGS Shaking map
USGS povijesnih potresa karti
USGS Seizmička opasnost karti
QuakeSOS   i QuakeSOS besplatno su iPhone aplikacija razvijen od strane Armand Vervaeck, osnivač potresa izvješća. Primjena pojednostavljuje neposrednoj grupe komunikacije prijateljima i članovima obitelji (sa svojim točnim GPS lokacija) i hranjenja korisnicima potresa Izvješće vijesti. The 0.99 US $ QuakeSOS   verzija će podržavati aktivnosti SOS potresi.
a 
Potres-Report.com naslove na Twitter
@ OnlyQuakeNews : Dobiti sve naslove naših potresa report.com članaka + redovite obavijesti o tijeku događaja
@ QuakeSOS : potres-report.com vijesti + automatske obavijesti o potresu USGS potresa M 4.0 ili više, s naglaskom na potrese u Americi i području Tihog oceana (4 and up) i puno od ostatka svijeta (5 and up). i goreačun je stvoren za našu QuakeSOS i QuakeSOS   iPhone aplikacija
@ ShakingEarth : potres-report.com vijesti + automatske obavijesti o potresu EMSC potresa M 4.0 ili više, s naglaskom na potresima u europskim i azijskim / Bliski istok sferi (4 and up) i puno od ostatka svijeta (5 and up). i goreačun je izvorno stvoren da stimulira naše Facebook račun
@ QuakeMaps : potres-report.com vijesti s mapiranje prijave svih potresa M 3.0 i više iz cijelog svijeta putem EMSC i USGS. Ovaj račun je stvoren za naše http://www.quake-maps.com web stranica
Ja sam to osjetiti – Osjetio sam – Το naglasakκανα αισθSνεται – Žao mi je – 我的确感到了 – 私はそれを感じていました- Sam ga osjećao – Bunu hissSam se osjećaoNisam se osjećao da je









Država i mjesto 
 ?Recite nam gdje u kojem mjestu ste se osjećali potresa 



E-mail (samo ako želite) 
 ?Vaša adresa e-pošte može nam pomoći ako smo zahtjev za dodatne detalje o svom iskustvu. Ovo polje nije obvezna. To je do vas da ga dati ili ne.



MMI II (Vrlo slab potres) 
  ?Ljudi :Filc osoba u mirovanju, na gornjim katovima ili povoljno smješten. 



MMI III (Slab potres) 
  ?Ljudi : Filc kući; vješanje objekata može jeku, vibracije slične donošenje svjetla kamiona, trajanje može se procijeniti, ne mogu biti priznata kao potres. 



MMI IV (Svjetlo trese) 
  ?Ljudi :Općenito primijetili u kući, ali ne izvan. Svjetlo pragovi mogu se probuditi. Vibracije mogu usporediti donošenje teških prometnih, ili potres od bučne objekt pada ili udarnim zgrade.
Oprema :Vrata i prozori zvečka. Staklo i posuđa zvečka. Tekućine u otvorenom plovila mogu malo biti poremećen. Stalni motorcars može stijena.
Strukture :Zidovi i okviri zgrada, i pregrade i spušteni stropovi u poslovne zgrade, može se čuti kako škripe. 



MMI V (Umjeren potres) 
  ?Ljudi :Općenito osjećao izvan, i gotovo svi u kući. Većina pragovi probudio. Nekoliko ljudi uznemirio.
Oprema :Mali nestabilni predmeti su raseljeni ili uzrujani. Neki stakla i posuđe može podijeliti. Vješanje slika kucati na zid. Otvorite vrata može jeku. Ormarić vrata osiguran magnetskim hvata mogu otvoriti. Pendulum satovi zaustaviti, početak, ili stopa promjene.
Strukture :Neki veliki zaslon prozori puknut. Nekoliko zemljani WC čvora puknut.



MMI VI (Jaka trese) 
  ?Ljudi
Osjetiti svi. Ljudi i životinje uznemirio. Mnogi se pokreću i izvan. Poteškoće s iskustvom u šetnju polako.
Oprema :Objekti pad od police. Slike pad od zidova. Neki namještaja preselili na glatkim podovima, neke unsecured slobodno stojeće kamina preselili. Staklo i posuđa slomljena. Vrlo nestabilna namještaja prevrnuo. Mali crkvu i školu zvona prsten. Aparati premjestiti na klupu ili stol ploče. Filing ormarića ili "lako kliziti" ladice mogu otvoriti (ili zatvoriti).
Strukture :Lagano štete na objektima s nizak standard. Neki štuko gips ili cementa pada. Veliki zaslon prozori razbijeni. Oštećenje nekoliko slabe domaće dimnjaka, neki svibanj pasti.
Okolina :Stabala i grmlja tresti, ili su čuli za krasti. Labavi materijal može biti pomaknu iz padini, g. postojećih slajdova, deluvijalne padinama, šindra slajdova.



MMI VII (Vrlo jak potres) 
  ?LjudiOpći alarma. Poteškoće s iskustvom u stojeći. Primijetio automobil vozača koji može zaustaviti.
Oprema :Velika zvona prsten. Namještaj kreće na glatkim podovima, može premjestiti na carpeted etaže. Znatnu štetu na krhke sadržaja zgrada.
Strukture :Unreinforced kamena i opeke zidovi napukao. Nizak standard zgrade oštećene uz neke manje zid pada. Nekoliko primjera oštećenja na objektima običnih izrade. Unbraced parapeta, unbraced opeke Gables, i arhitektonski ukrasi padaju. Crjepova, osobito grebena pločice mogu se pomaknu iz kućišta. Mnogi domaći unreinforced dimnjaka oštećene, često pada s krova-line. Voda tenkova tipa praska. Nekoliko slučajeva oštećenja opeke furnira i gipsa ili cementa na bazi obloge. Nezaustavljivo vode cilindara (tople vode boce) mogu se kretati i curenja. Neke uobičajene prozore puknut. Spušteni stropovi oštećene.
Okolina :Voda je mutna od strane podiže mulj. Mala slajdova, kao što su slapovi pijeska i šljunka banke, i mali rock pada iz strmih padina i reznicama. Primjeri rješavanja nekonsolidiranih ili mokre, ili slab tla. Neke fine pukotine se pojavljuju u padini. Nekoliko slučajeva ukapljivanja (ja. male vode i pijeska izbačaji).



MMI VIII (Teški potres) 
  ?Ljudi
Alarm može pristup panike. Upravni od motorcars uvelike utjecao.

Strukture :
Nizak standard građevine teško oštećena, Neki kolaps. obični izrade zgrada oštećenih, s nekim djelomičnim kolapsom. Armiranog betona ili zidane zgrade oštećene u nekim slučajevima. Nekoliko primjera oštećenja na zgradama i mostovi projektiran i izgrađen da se odupre potresa. Spomenici i pre-1976 povišen tenkova i tvornice stacks upletena ili odmaknu. Neki prije 1965 ispuna zidane ploče oštećene. Nekoliko nakon-1980 cigle furnira oštećene. Zahvaćeni drvo hrpe kuća oštećenih. Kuće nisu osigurani na temeljima mogu se kretati. Većina unreinforced domaćih dimnjaka oštećene, Neki ispod krova-line, više odmaknu.

Okolina :
Pukotine se pojavljuju na strmim padinama i na mokar teren. Mala do umjerena slajdova u ivičnjak reznice i nepodržane iskopavanja. Mala vode i pijeska izbačaji i lokaliziran bočno širenje uz potoke, kanala, jezera, itd..



MMI IX (Nasilni trese) 
  ?Strukture
Mnogi nizak standard građevine uništene. Obični izradi građevine teško oštećena, Neki kolaps. Armiranog betona ili zidane zgrade oštećene, s nekim djelomičnim kolapsom. Zgrade i mostovi projektiran i izgrađen da se odupre potresa oštećene u nekim slučajevima, neke s fleksibilnim okviri ozbiljno oštećena. Šteta ili trajna izobličenja nekih zgrada i mostova, projektiran i izgrađen za normalnu uporabu standardima. Kuće nisu osigurani na temeljima pomaknut od. Brick veneers jeseni i izložiti okvira.

Okolina : 
Pucanje tla primjetan. Landsliding općenito na strmim padinama. Ukapljivanje učinci pojačane i više široko rasprostranjena, s velikim bočnim kliznim šire i protok uz potoke, kanala, jezera, itd..



 
 



Napišite svoje iskustvo i / ili dodatni tekst ovdje :  ?Opišite što ste doživjeli s vlastitim riječima. Ostali jezici su također prihvaćeni. 








 







Facebook komentari:



Komentari 


Lake Monticello Virginia kaže: 

Rujan 1, 2011 na 6:12 sati


Lake Monticello, Virdžinija: A little after 5 na. Rujan 1, 2011 – awakened by the now familiar slow rumble getting louder and louder as well as shaking lasting a few seconds – not sure exactly how to get used to this.


Odgovor 



Mary Meyer kaže: 

Rujan 1, 2011 na 2:06 sati


I know you find it hard to believe I felt it in Indiana, but that’s what was so….gentle rocking and noticing the time 5:10 and then reading that an aftershock happened at 5:09. When the 1st one happened on 8/23, people felt it near my area and even further west though I can’t say I felt anything then.


Odgovor 



Armand Vervaeck kaže: 

Rujan 1, 2011 na 2:14 sati


Mary, thank you for additional comment – Armand


Odgovor 





patricia kaže: 

Rujan 1, 2011 at 10:30 na


I was driving last night when I felt a shaking in the car while waiting at a light. It last just seconds. This happened 08/31/11 in Frederick, md around 11:25 sati.


Odgovor 



Lucy kaže: 

Kolovoz 26, 2011 na 3:10 sati


I felt the aftershock also at 1:08 am in Columbia, MD


Odgovor 



Teresa kaže: 

Kolovoz 25, 2011 at 9:17 na


I am located in Grandy, NC and felt a light tremor lasting not more than 2-3 seconds at 3:40 a.m. What is the likelyhood that this was an aftershock? Have there been any other reports or signs of activity? I realize not many people would be awake at this time to make such a report, but the first time it happened I felt a strong shaking for about 8-10 sekundi. I questioned whether it was just me and said nothing. Now I can’t help but wonder.


Odgovor 








Izrazite svoje mišljenje Odustani odgovor

Ime *
E-mail *
Website
 






Unesite znakove sa slike








Prijevod
Postavi kao zadani jezik Uredi prevođenje
Primanje naših "Dnevni Novi Članci" bilten + Glavni Najnovija vijest - Kliknite za primjer

 
Proteklog vremena od prošlog CatDat Crveni potres :
48 dani 5 sati 39 zapisnik 55 sekundi






 Potres-Report.com Članci sažetak na svoje stranice ?
Koristite naš posebni dodatak sadržaj - Kliknite ovdje da biste vidjeli primjer i kod

Ažurirano Postovi dodatak
Vrlo jaka (duboko) Potres ispod Sumatra, Indonezija - 12 godišnji dječak poginuo urušavanja kućePotresi popis rujna 6, 2011Potresi popis rujna 5, 2011 - Vrlo jak potres u nastavku Sumatri Virginia potresa "Sam to osjećao" reports - 112 izvješćaPotresi popis rujna 4, 2011Masivni duboko potresa u Vanuatu + posttraumatski rujna 4/5Potres roj pogađa Češka / Njemačka granice - novi roj rujna 4Potres Colorado / Novi Meksiko, SAD - Procjena štete : 100,000 US $ + Šteta slikePotresi popis rujna 3, 2011 + Masivni potres u VanuatuPotres povezane vijesti 2011-09-1Potres roj njemački - Češki pograničnoj regiji. Za više informacija o potresu 3 RujanŠto putuje brže od potresa ? Nagađati ...Potresi popis rujna 2, 2011 - Važno potresa na Aljasci i ArgentineMasivni potres na subdukcije obroncima nenaseljeni otoci AljaskePotresa Virginia + 116 "Sam to osjećao" izvješća




Kategorija Posebni RSS
 Jaka oštećenja potresa Dnevni potresa popis Dnevne potresa vezane vijesti Potresi s ograničenom oštećenja Dangeropus potresa Veličina 6 ili više potresa Spremnost Svi člancipo Savjeti i trikovi
 Najnovija objavljena postove

Potresi popis rujna 6, 2011
Vrlo jaka (duboko) Potres ispod Sumatra, Indonezija – 12 godišnji dječak poginuo urušavanja kuće
Potresi popis rujna 5, 2011 – Vrlo jak potres u nastavku Sumatri
Masivni duboko potresa u Vanuatu + posttraumatski rujna 4/5
Potresi popis rujna 4, 2011
Potres povezane vijesti 2011-09-1
Potresi popis rujna 3, 2011 + Masivni potres u Vanuatu
Što putuje brže od potresa ? Nagađati …
Masivni potres na subdukcije obroncima nenaseljeni otoci Aljaske
Potresi popis rujna 2, 2011 – Važno potresa na Aljasci i Argentine
Umjeren potres u Greater Los Angeles području – Nema oštećenja ili ozljede izvijestio je
Potresa Virginia + 116 “Sam to osjećao” izvješća
Aktivni vulkani na svijetu od 24/08/2011 na 30/08/2011
Potresi popis rujna 1, 2011 + Veličina 4.2 Potres u Los Angelesu području
Bušenje razumjeti tajne San Andreas Fault (video)
Potresi popis kolovoz 31, 2011
Slab potres vrlo plitko plaši downtown San Fransisco
Vrlo jaka “duboko” potres u moru Banda (Istočni Timor – Indonezija)
Potresi popis kolovoz 30, 2011
Još jedan prekrasan erupcije Mt Etna (Italija) kolovoza 29 2011 + video


Popularni postovi

Potresi popis kolovoz 23, 2011
2 Potresi, plitak, bili uplašeni u Gard i Ardèche, Francuska
Japan Tohoku tsunamija i potresa : Broj poginulih se ponovno uspinjemo!
Potres Colorado / Novi Meksiko, SAD - Procjena štete : 100,000 US $ + Šteta slike
Masivan 7+ potresa u blizini Vanuatu Efate Otok (Kolovoz 20/21, 2011
Potresi popis srpnja 25, 2011
Potresa Virginia + 116 "Ja ga Filc" izvješća
Potres aktivnost u nastavku El Hierro (vulkan), Kanarski otoci, Španjolska
Vrlo jaki i opasni potres pogodio Virginia - šteta pregled
Današnja erupcija videa (Kolovoz 20) na Etna vulkan (Sicilija, Italija) + Video druge erupcije







 
 
Kontakt
     - Potres-Report.com je dio SOS potresi, potres reljef neprofitna organizacija-  autorsko pravo  © 2011 ·  powered by 123Webdesign 
        · Prijavite se u













