The Rundown News Blog - powered by FeedBurner
&



The Rundown News Blog

syndicated content powered by FeedBurner






...

Reset this favorite; show all Subscribe options



Subscribe Now!
...with web-based news readers. Click your choice below:







...with other readers:

(Choose Your Reader)FeedDemonNetNewsWireNewsFireNewsGator Outlook EditionRSSOwlShrookUniversal Subscription Mechanism (USM)


 View Feed XML




FeedBurner makes it easy to receive content updates in My Yahoo!, Newsgator, Bloglines, and other news readers.

Learn more about syndication and FeedBurner...

Current Feed Content



The Party's Over: Post-revolution, Egyptians Struggle to Find Their Future


Posted: 2011-09-05 18:44:12 UTC-04:00


Streets of Cairo. Photo by Jana Mills via Flickr Creative Commons.
CAIRO, EGYPT -- What a difference seven months make.  The Cairo I left on Feb. 12 -- the morning after Egypt's longtime autocrat Hosni Mubarak abandoned the presidency -- was like a college town the morning after a Grateful Dead concert, or a household suffering from a collective hangover on New Year's Day.  The streets were nearly deserted, and the few brave souls who had ventured out looked dazed.
Yesterday, Sept. 3,  was a "morning after" of sorts, too. It was Cairenes' first day back at work after the month-long fast of Ramadan and a five-day Eid holiday weekend.  But on this morning after, the Egyptian capital was its old vibrant, dirty, chaotic, improvisational self.  Traffic clogged the streets and the bridges over the Nile, as cars jockeyed for advantage and position. (Traffic lanes seem an alien concept here). Pedestrians crossed willy-nilly through the traffic. Office workers lucky enough to have jobs elbowed past each other to work.  Shops were open, hawking everything from shoes to computer equipment.
And as evening fell last night at the Lion Bridge, which had brought tens of thousands of daily demonstrators to Tahrir Square during the 18-day uprising, kids clambered up on the 10-foot-high lions, cart vendors roasted corn at their feet, dateless young men perched precariously on the bridge railing and couples embraced. "You would never have seen this before Tahrir," a friend said as we drove across the bridge. Tahrir Square itself was making a pretense of being its pre-uprising normal, with traffic flowing through and not a tent camp or protestor in sight, demanding Mubarak's ouster. But there was one tell-tale sign of the Revolution's aftermath: uniformed riot police shoulder-to-shoulder around the square's grassy central circle, their body shields at the ready beside them.
Those riot police enforcing "order" in Tahrir Square are a symbol of what's changed since early summer. There is now real tension between the young activists who sparked the uprising that drove Mubarak from office, and the military leadership that protected them and  told Mubarak when the game was up.  Its Supreme Council took control with an implicit deal: we'll keep order and set up a framework for electing a new civilian leadership, and then retire. The deal was simple in concept, but it's been uncomfortably bumpy in execution.  As the months wore on amid wrangling over the ground rules for elections and writing a constitution, the young activists have grown impatient over what's not been done. There has been no end to military trials for civilians, nor the emergency  law that  justified these extra-legal courts, and many people arrested by the old regime's security apparatus during the protests haven't been released.  The military has grown impatient with the activists in return.  At first they tolerated the protestors' return to the Square in the spring and in early July, and satisfied some of their demands -- like replacing the Cabinet and putting Mubarak on trial. But on the first day of Ramadan, troops moved into the square and forcibly cleared it out.

Ahmed El Sheikh and Margaret Warner in Maadi suburb of Cairo, Egypt. Photo by Ghada Mashamoun.
"The Revolution was a great time. We were all so united," 21-year-old Islam Dardeery told me last night. A recent college graduate with a degree in economics, he can't find a job.  "But now there are lots of conflicts and some behavior (like police bribes) have gone back to what they were. Worst of all, nothing is clear.  We have no president, and we don't know what will happen."
I was sitting in the Grand Café on the Corniche road alongside the Nile with Dardeery and two of his young friends, all veterans -- though not leaders -- of the Tahrir Square uprising. His friend, 23-year-old college student Ahmed El Sheikh,  chimed in, "After Mubarak left, we thought it would be awesome, in six months everything would change. Instead we have this instability -- and no president."
Their distrust of the military was palpable  "The military keeps saying we are going to do this and do that, and it doesn't happen," said 23-year-old human resources specialist Sara Mahmoud. "We don't have a clear picture of where we're going. Anyone who has money in the bank is going to keep it there; nobody is going to invest in this situation to help the economy."

Sara Mahmoud and Islam Dardeery in Cairo, Egypt. Photo by Ghada Mashamoun.
This state of affairs comes as no surprise to the longstanding liberal opposition, rendered nearly toothless during the Mubarak regime.  One of those is Wael Nawara, former general secretary of the El Ghad (Tomorrow) party, whom we spoke with mid-way through the uprising and frequently thereafter. He's now joined a political bloc with some of the younger activists. "I told you the last we talked, the night Mubarak left, that this revolution would have to be sustained over a long period of time" he said. "We'll have to maintain momentum for several years -- beyond the election, and even the new constitution -- to achieve the demands of the revolution. The young people need to understand that, and join the effort."
Gameela Ismail, who during the Revolution had urged the demonstrators in the Square to keep up the pressure on Mubarak is still urging the activists to take a long view. "These are predictable phases that we have to pass through, to take the revolution to the very end," she said. "It's  not enough to have gotten rid of Mubarak, and then expect everything to change." The biggest challenge the activist forces face, she said, "is broader Egyptian society itself, how to keep them on our side so they don't turn against us during this long period." There's a real danger, she said. "No one expected change to take so long. People in the countryside and even the cities are starting to lose hope. They are thinking the revolution failed.  Our biggest challenge is to keep their morale during the struggle ahead."
It's been a promising beginning for our return to Egypt to assess the state of the revolution, seven months after the dramatic events that drove Mubarak from office. And as the 10th anniversary of 9/11 nears, we're also looking at the enduring appeal of anti-U.S. sentiment and terrorism in Egypt,  which was the  20th century incubator of Islamic jihadism and the birthplace of Ayman al-Zawahiri, the new chief of al-Qaida.
They are complicated stories to report and tell. But after just 48 hours here, one thing is clear -- most Egyptians feel uncomfortable being leaderless. Countless Cairenes have told us what young Ahmed el Sheikh said: We don't have a president, we don't know who's leading the Revolution ranks, we don't know who's in charge. There's no daddy figure to rely on, or blame when things go wrong. "This is the hardest part, we have no authority to protect us or unite us," Gameela Ismail said. "We now have to face all this and deal with it ourselves. For thousands of years, we Egyptians have had someone to rule over us. We are used to Pharoanic rule. It's the culture we have gotten used to. Now the public wants to know who the "leader" of the revolution is, so that they can blame him if things go wrong."
That's the most profound aspect of the 21st century Egyptian Revolution and its aftermath. After thousands of years of being led, Egyptians must now figure how how to lead themselves.
Watch for Warner's reports from Egypt on-air and online this week and next. View all of our World coverage and follow us on Twitter.






NASA Technology, At Work on Earth


Posted: 2011-09-05 16:09:26 UTC-04:00


Marathon finish line blankets.  Photo by NASA Spinoff Magazine.
Variations of many NASA inventions, initially developed for space travel and exploration, have worked their way into consumer culture, ranging from common household items to complex medical technology. Since 1973, when NASA began officially recording these so-called "spinoffs," they have documented more than 1,750 items.
One of NASA's most important contributions might simply be bringing large teams of scientists together to solve problems, according to Roger Launius, curator at the National Air and Space Museum. "Then, when they disperse to go to other corporations or universities, they take with them the knowledge they gained through the process," he said. Hence, spinoffs are born. 
Inventor Inspiration: Heat insulation for spacecraft
Mylar, an aluminum-coated plastic material that traps and reflects heat, has flown on every manned space flight and coated thousands of satellites and the Hubble telescope. In space there is no atmosphere to conduct heat, so there are drastic temperature changes between shadow and light. Mylar was initially developed for NASA in the 1950s to protect its space crafts from the sun's heat and to keep them insulated.  
David Diegan, who formerly worked at National Metalizing of Cranbury, N.J., which manufactured mylar for NASA spaceflight, saw a real-life application of the material when he began running marathons in 1978. 
"The New York City Marathon had big problems when it went from a really small obscure event that almost no one participated in, to almost overnight, a huge event with thousands of finishers," Diegan said. 
The large volume of runners created congestion at the finish line, which meant it could take runners more than 15 minutes to get to their clothes. In the brisk fall New York City weather, runners were developing hypothermia after the race. Diegan noticed that some people were using mylar blankets for warmth at the end of the race. 
"When I finished New York Marathon in 1978 and 1979 I saw this sea of people in silver and nothing on it, and I saw a missed opportunity," Diegan said. 
So he pitched the idea of a branded mylar marathon blanket to the head of the New York Marathon. Thirty-one years later, Diegan owns his own company, Advanced Flexible Materials, which manufactures an updated version of the aluminized plastic material for emergency kits and finish line blankets.
Inventor Inspiration: Space Camera
In the early 1990s NASA set out to build a smaller camera to send into space with the spacecrafts to record images of planets, moons, asteroids and other objects in space. At the time, cameras that flew on deep space missions were roughly the size of a microwave, consumed a lot of power, and were highly susceptible to radiation. When mounted in a spacecraft, the cameras took up room and added excess weight. 
Miniaturizing would allow NASA to build a smaller, faster and cheaper space craft. But inventing a smaller camera wasn't simple. NASA is famous for its clear images of space; a smaller camera would have to maintain that same image quality. With those caveats in mind, Eric Fossum and his team, working at the Jet Propulsion Lab, invented the "camera on a chip," a miniature imaging system that fits a large amount of data, electronics and analog-to-digital converters on just a small piece of silicon. 
In the mid-1990s Fossum realized that his technology could be successful in the mainstream market. He and few other team members from the Jet Propulsion Laboratory acquired the licensing rights for the camera and formed a new company, Photobit. At first, Photobit's technology was used for automotive applications, such as headlight dimmers, and medical technologies, such as the swallowable pill camera. 
The technology got a boost in the early 2000s when it became marketed as a cell phone camera. Fossum, whose company has changed hands several times and now goes by the name Aptina, was recently inducted into the National Inventors Hall of Fame for his camera innovation. 
Inventor Inspiration: Astronaut Space Suit Design
Following the Apollo 1 test flight fire that resulted in the death of three astronauts, NASA reevaluated its nylon space suit design. The new space suit material needed to be durable, strong and most importantly, fireproof. NASA sought out two companies, DuPont and Owens Corning Fiberglass, that proposed a material made of ultrafine woven glass coated in Teflon, a noncombustible fabric which NASA integrated into the Apollo space suits. 

Meanwhile, Bird Air, an architectural contractor, was seeking a new construction fabric. They had been constructing smaller fabric designs, but needed a durable fabric for large structures.  NASA's Teflon fabric was a perfect fit. The Teflon material is pound for pound stronger than steel, but it is aesthetically unique as well. The material is semi translucent, so during the day it lets in a lot of natural light and at night glows like a beacon.
"It's class A, fire-rated, non-combustible, it's got a Teflon coating which really repels dirt and doesn't stick, and it lasts in temperatures ranging from -150 degrees Fahrenheit to 450 degrees Fahrenheit," said Dave Capezutto. "For us it was perfect."
Bird Air completed the first Teflon roofing structure, the Sports Science and Athletics Pavilion at  the University of La Verne, in 1973.  The Denver International Airport, designed to look like the Rocky Mountains, is also constructed from the Teflon material. 






Obama Rallies Support Ahead of Jobs Speech


Posted: 2011-09-05 14:38:29 UTC-04:00


President Obama speaks during Labor Day celebrations on September 5, 2011 outside General Motor's world headquarters in Detroit, Mich. Photo by Mandel Ngan/AFP/Getty Images.
Days after the August jobs report showed zero growth -- and ahead of a prime-time speech on Thursday on ways to spur job creation -- President Obama delivered an address at a GM lot in Detroit, Mich. to gin up support for his plan. Several Republican presidential contenders also seized on the holiday to promote their economic platforms in an election cycle already dominated by a struggling U.S. economy.
President Obama rallied support for his Thursday speech, hinting at the main concepts but avoiding specifics. 
"On Thursday we're going to lay out a new way forward on jobs to grow the economy and put more Americans back to work right now. I don't want to give everything away right here because I want you all to tune in on Thursday but I'll  give you just a little bit," he said. "We've got roads and bridges across this country that need rebuilding." The president said the "more than one million unemployed construction workers" could be put to work on infrastructure projects, if Congress approved.
Acknowledging the tough economic environment, President Obama said "We've come through a difficult decade. We have a lot more work to do to recover fully."
The president also called for an extension of the payroll tax cut, which he said translated to an extra thousand dollars, on average, for many Americans.
"I think putting money back in the pockets of working families is the best way to get demand rising, because that then means business is hiring, and that means the economy is growing. So I'm going to propose ways to get America back to work that both parties can agree to," he said.
Some Republicans said the president has already lost the support of organized labor, a group he mentioned frequently during his nearly half-hour speech, and that this was an opportunity to win their votes back.  
"Whether they're Republicans or Democrats or Independents or Tea Party activists or Libertarians, they all realize this is nothing more than the beginning of a reelection campaign," Michigan GOP Chairman Bobby Schostak told the Detroit News earlier in the day. 
President Obama also had harsh words for congressional Republicans, saying it was time to "put country ahead of party."
"The time for Washington games is over. The time for action is now. No more manufactured crises, no more games," he said.
The president also heaped praise on the labor movement for helping create "the greatest middle class the world has ever known," and vowed that as long as he was in office he would defend collective bargaining, a statement met with chants of "four more years."
In the Republican sphere, Mitt Romney marked the holiday by pointing to his upcoming speech on the economy, saying in a statement that "[a]s we celebrate this Labor Day, we should not forget the great many families facing economic hardship. Over 25 million Americans are unemployed, underemployed, or so discouraged that they have stopped even looking for a job. This week I will outline a comprehensive plan to put America back on the road to economic growth and job creation."
At a town hall in South Carolina Monday, Texas governor Rick Perry took the opportunity to attack Republican rival Romney, who has suggested that his experience as a businessman would help put the U.S. economy back on track. "While he was the governor of Massachusetts he didn't create many jobs," Perry said. He also criticized the president, saying that his Thursday jobs speech should include a repeal of "Obamacare" and regulations put forth by the Environmental Protection Agency.






Motion Sickness Treatments Make Waves 


Posted: 2011-09-05 11:54:42 UTC-04:00


Photo by Flickr user billyblackbear38.
James Locke, a flight surgeon at NASA's Johnson Space Center in Houston, has made dozens of people sick in the name of science. When he puts subjects in a spinning chair designed to induce motion sickness, roughly 70 percent of them succumb -- and at nearly the exact same point on each ride. Locke has used this research and his work with shuttle astronauts to determine which medications and doses best prevent the nausea and vomiting associated with motion sickness.
Unfortunately, while the chair always goes through precisely the same motions, the real world is less predictable. In a ship at sea or on a small plane in turbulence, for example, the type and amount of motion can vary dramatically -- and so can its effects on people.
Researchers like Locke, and those who work with pilots and the military's most frequent flyers, are especially keen to find better ways to treat motion sickness. And the many civilians who face nausea in cars, planes, boats or even the tamest amusement park rides would welcome a cure without the common side effects of current medications, such as sleepiness, or the questionable efficacy of alternative treatments, such as pressure bracelets. The path to those ends remains bumpy and filled with more than a few green faces, but new research is closer to finding the best treatments to keep both side effects and lunch down.
Eyes vs. ears
Despite decades of research, scientists are still not sure exactly why motion sickness occurs -- or how. The currently accepted theory is that sensory conflict is to blame.
"Information from both our visual and vestibular systems is processed by the brain to match it all up. Your vestibular system -- your inner ear -- is tuned to a terrestrial, 1G environment," Locke says. "When you move [yourself] around, changes in your vestibular system match up with what you're seeing. But [riding] in an airplane or car, your inner ear signals that you're moving, but your eye says you're sitting still" because your body is not moving in relation to its immediate environment -- such as the seat you're sitting in, the back of the seat in front of you and the floor beneath your feet.
Why this conflicting input actually causes symptoms such as vomiting is also fairly unclear, says Edwin Park, a neurologist at the Naval Aerospace Medical Institute in Pensacola, Fla.. "Most research has only revealed bits and pieces, and it's all speculation on how it goes together."
A number of neural pathways apparently can activate the brain's vomiting center, thought to be located in the medulla. Studies have shown that certain medications -- antihistamines, anticholinergics, amphetamines and serotonin agents -- are effective in treating motion sickness, which suggests that it involves the related neurotransmitters: histamine, acetylcholine, noradrenalin and serotonin. Locke says some agents used to treat nausea from other causes, such as food poisoning and chemotherapy, curiously fail to work on motion sickness. Thus, these reactions likely do not involve the same brain pathways as motion-induced nausea.
Locke's data suggest that roughly 30 percent of the population is naturally immune to motion sickness, at least in most conditions. Studies as to why some people are susceptible and others are not have been inconclusive, he says: "So far, we're unable to predict who gets it and who doesn't." Most research has focused, instead, on what helps those who do succumb in controlled conditions, which may also help scientists better manage the condition in the real world.
Drugs and other treatments
Unimpressed with the effectiveness of over-the-counter meds, NASA researchers have experimented with combinations of more heavy-hitting drugs to strengthen astronauts' stomachs, so to speak. Through trial and error, Locke has found that a combination of oral scopolamine, to suppress vomiting, and dextroamphetamine, to counteract scopolamine's potential to induce drowsiness, reduced the incidence of motion sickness from 70 percent to about 12 percent among passengers in the "Vomit Comet" -- a DC-9 aircraft used to achieve brief periods of zero gravity as part of NASA's Reduced Gravity Program. Oral or injected scopolamine takes effect more quickly and can be administered in higher doses than the patches commonly used by the general public, but the drug is not as readily available to the public in those forms (NASA orders its own supply).
Multiple studies have shown that people with a history of suffering from migraines are more susceptible to motion sickness. Joseph Furman, a professor in the department of otolaryngology at University of Pittsburgh, recently published a study showing that patients who were prone to migraines that are accompanied by dizziness responded to rizatriptan, a serotonin agonist that is often prescribed to help stop migraine headaches in their early stages. But like motion sickness, scientists do not really know why people get migraines, Furman says. And determining whether the drug would have the same vertigo-alleviating effect on people who do not would require a larger study of rizatriptan's application specifically to motion sickness.    
Additional factors might complicate the full biophysiology of motion sickness, some experts argue. "To say a certain percentage of the population is susceptible to motion sickness is probably an oversimplification," Park says. "There are so many variables involved, including the type and frequency of motion, and a range of tolerance and frequency." In fact, testing motion sickness in the real world is so difficult precisely because conditions and individuals vary so much on a case-by-case and incident-by-incident basis.
Park thinks anxiety makes people more susceptible, for instance, and having a sense of control over a situation makes them less so -- which might explain why people are more likely to get sick riding in a car or aircraft than when they are driving or at the controls. He has used desensitization training, exposure to motion in an artificial environment (the same type of spinning chair Locke uses), and biofeedback, in which subjects learn to control their own breathing, heart rate and other physical responses, to help flyers deal with motion sickness. 
This article is reproduced with permission from Scientific American. It was first published on September 3. Find the original story here.






World Week Ahead: Mubarak Trial Resumes; Libyan Rebels Rally for Next Fight


Posted: 2011-09-05 11:37:22 UTC-04:00


Protesters clash with riot police outside the courtroom in Cairo. Photo by Khaled Desouki/AFP/Getty Images.
The trial of former Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak resumed Monday, and in Libya rebel forces are preparing for their next battle against Moammar Gadhafi loyalists.
EGYPT | The trial of Mubarak, who is charged with ordering the killing of protesters during the uprising earlier this year that resulted in him stepping down, continued Monday after a three-week recess.
Outside the courtroom, police scuffled with family members of those killed, who were trying to enter the police academy where the trial is taking place.
The NewsHour has dispatched a reporting team to Egypt to follow up on its previous reports on the country's historic government shift.
Over the next two weeks, the team will look at how Egyptians feel about the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks on the United States; and where Egypt is headed, politically, economically and socially.
LIBYA | Elsewhere in North Africa, Libyan fighters are regrouping for an assault on Bani Walid, one of the towns still under control of forces supporting Libyan leader Gadhafi.
GlobalPost's James Foley reports:

"Bani Walid is now encircled by the rebels, and a battle appears imminent. It has become a strategic target for the rebels because it is reported that two of Gadhafi's sons, Saif and Saadi, have been there recently. A few days ago it was reported that Gadhafi himself was in Bani Walid, but now many say he has moved even further south, toward the border with Niger."

Other remaining Gadhafi strongholds include Jufra, Sabha and his hometown of Sirte, reports Foley.
SYRIA | Syria's government responded to protesters Monday with a round of assaults on towns and cities, according to the New York Times.
Human rights organizations reported that several people were killed during the raids on Homs in western Syria, the eastern town of Tal Khalakh and Idlib province in the north.
The assaults came as Jakob Kellenberger, president of the International Committee of the Red Cross, prepared to meet with Syrian leader Bashar Assad to try to gain access to thousands of detainees imprisoned since unrest began in mid-March.
SOMALIA | The United Nations on Monday categorized a sixth region of drought-stricken Somalia to be in famine. An estimated 4 million people -- out of a country of about 10 million -- are in crisis conditions.
"The latest round of surveys shows a continuing deterioration in Somalia," said Mark Bowden, the U.N. humanitarian coordinator for Somalia, reported the Guardian. "More people are in need of assistance and in some areas there has been a deepening of the crisis. We also know that people will have major needs for assistance well past the end of this year."
View all of our World coverage and follow us on Twitter.






Lee Downgraded to Tropical Depression, 2 Die in Texas Fire


Posted: 2011-09-05 10:15:53 UTC-04:00


A man paddles a canoe through flood waters in Lafitte, La. Photo by Sean Gardner/Getty Images.
After sweeping through Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama Sunday morning, causing flooding in low-lying areas and leaving thousands without power, a weakened storm is continuing to move north through the Tennessee Valley, bringing more heavy rain and potential flooding for those in its path. Several tornadoes were reported.
Despite the storm weakening as it heads inland, forecasters have warned that the potential for flooding could be even worse, much as it was for Vermont after Hurricane Irene. According to the Associated Press, 

National Hurricane Center specialist Robbie Berg said Lee's flash flood threat could be more severe as the rain moves from the flatter Gulf region into the rugged Appalachians.
Closer to the Gulf, the water is "just going to sit there a couple of days," he said. "Up in the Appalachians you get more threat of flash floods."

The storm could bring 20 inches of rain in some areas Monday. Winds were reported at 35 miles per hour. Lee is being blamed for hastening the spread of wildfires in Texas, killing two people in Gladewater, where a woman and her 18-month old daughter were unable to escape their trailer before it was destroyed.






Flight 93 Memorial to 'Standing Up' Set to Open in Pennsylvania


Posted: 2011-09-05 15:29:54 UTC-04:00


Time-lapse video of memorial construction from the National Park Foundation and EarthCam
Ten years after the passengers and crew of United Flight 93 fought back against their hijackers, driving the airplane into the ground instead of the intended target in the nation's capital, a permanent memorial will open in Shanksville, Pa.
The dedication, which is open to the public, takes place Saturday, Sept. 10. (You can watch the ceremony live at 12:30 p.m. ET.)
The new memorial, which will bring visitors closer than ever before to the site where the airplane crashed into a field in western Pennsylvania, not only commemorates those who gave their lives that day, but it "provides a beacon for the future of world citizen conduct, of doing the right thing and standing up," said Hamilton Peterson of Bethesda, Md., who is on the board of the Families of Flight 93. He lost his father and stepmother on the flight.
The National Park Service website for the memorial provides details on what happened that morning:

"At about 9:28 a.m., after 46 minutes of routine flight across Pennsylvania, the terrorists on Flight 93 overtook the cockpit, turning the plane southeast on a course directed toward Washington, D.C., the nation's capital. The passengers and crew were forced to the back of the plane and told to be quiet. Using airfones, passengers and crew began making calls to report the hijacking. They soon learned the shocking news about the other hijacked planes and quickly realized that Flight 93 was part of a larger attack on America. This realization led to a vote and a collective decision to fight back."

The newly opened first phase of the memorial includes a viewing plaza, where visitors can approach the area where the airplane hit the ground. Only family members will be able to enter the actual site, which will continue to be fenced off to the general public. The plaza bears walls of marble engraved with the names of the 40 passengers and crew who died on the flight.
The next phase of the memorial will include a visitor center and Tower of Voices -- a 93-foot chamber containing 40 cylindrical wind chimes (artist rendering seen at right).
"Since our last contact with the passengers and crew was through their voices and on phone calls, and the Tower of Voices kind of recreates that, and ensures that their voices are not silenced by the hijacking and the terrorist attacks but that they can still speak in a symbolic way to the people who visit the Flight 93 memorial," said King Laughlin, vice president of the Flight 93 National Memorial Campaign.
Someday, the memorial will also contain audio testimonials by the relatives of those who died and the first responders to the crash scene. (Listen to some of them here.) But there are no plans for now to include the cockpit voice recording, though a transcript of it is available at the temporary memorial.
The cockpit voice recorder captured the doomed flight's last 30 minutes. The voice of one of the hijackers, who had taken over the controls, can be heard ordering passengers to stay put. It also recorded what people believe is a hijacker killing one of the passengers or crew members, and the moment when the passengers began fighting back -- possibly smothering one of the hijackers and trying to ram through the cockpit door with a service cart.
"It's an extremely graphic, violent audio recording, but it also demonstrates the fact that that was the first salvo in the war against terrorism," said Peterson, who supports the audio's release.
The recording was played publicly only once -- during the 2006 sentencing phase of the trial of convicted al-Qaida conspirator Zacarias Moussaoui.
The relatives of Flight 93 victims could listen to the tape by wearing headsets. Peterson said some family members left during the first gut-wrenching moments.
"I remember feeling bad that they could not have partaken in that bittersweet moment where you knew that the tables had been turned," he said, adding that he thought the tape would provide an educational tool and inspirational message of how people can do the right thing.
The finished memorial will include 40 groves of trees planted over a 2,200-acre area, along with an exhibit of artifacts from the downed airplane and items left by visitors at the temporary memorial, located about a half mile from the crash site.
"It will be a great opportunity to tell people not just about Flight 93 but the context of Sept. 11," said Laughlin. Although it's taken longer to build than the memorials in New York City and the Pentagon, the Shanksville memorial is integral to telling the complete story about what happened on Sept. 11, he said.
So far, the Flight 93 National Memorial Campaign has raised $52 million in federal, state and private funds. Another $10 million is needed for the memorial's completion.
View artist renderings of the finished site. See more information about the memorial and its dedication, including a webcam of the entire construction zone that refreshes every 15 minutes.






Tropical Storm Lee Brings Flooding, Power Outages to La., Miss.


Posted: 2011-09-04 21:14:39 UTC-04:00



7:15 p.m. ET | Several Louisiana parishes and counties in Mississippi have reported flooding from Tropical Storm Lee, though the damage in New Orleans has thus far been less than feared, with levees holding after more than 12 inches of rain.
Much like Hurricane Irene in the Northeast last weekend, Tropical Storm Lee could bring more flooding as it churns toward the Tennessee Valley. According to the Associated Press,

National Hurricane Center specialist Robbie Berg said Lee's flash flood threat could be more severe as the rain moves from the flatter Gulf region into the rugged Appalachians.
Closer to the Gulf, the water is "just going to sit there a couple of days," he said. "Up in the Appalachians you get more threat of flash floods - so that's very similar to some of the stuff we saw in Vermont."


A resident wades through a flooded street following heavy rains from Tropical Storm Lee on  Sept. 3, 2011. Photo by Cheryl Gerber/Getty Images.
9 a.m. ET | Tropical Storm Lee brought heavy rain to southern Louisiana early Sunday, dropping 6 to 10 inches of rain in some places and threatening low-lying areas. Thousands of residents in Louisiana and Mississippi were without power.
More heavy rain is expected as Tropical Storm Lee moves along the Gulf Coast. As of Sunday it had maximum sustained winds of 45 miles per hour and was moving at a rate of only 2 miles per hour, meaning the slow storm could bring rain as far north as the Tennessee Valley Monday evening. 
Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal said that there are "severe weather warnings and tornado warnings in effect for parts of the state, and residents everywhere need to use extreme caution."
The National Hurricane Center has warned of possible tornadoes in Louisiana, Mississippi Alabama and parts of the Florida panhandle. 
Coastal areas that would normally receive an influx of Labor Day visitors were cleared out, leaving businesses that rely on tourists without visitors on what would be one of the busiest weekends of the summer.
Another storm, Katia, which has been churning over the Atlantic, regained Hurricane status Sunday morning. The storm is not expected to make landfall for several more days.






Shields and Brooks(es) on Rick Perry vs. Mitt Romney, NCAA Football Scandals


Posted: 2011-09-02 20:27:14 UTC-04:00



Syndicated columnist Mark Shields and New York Times columnist David Brooks (plus his son) joined Hari Sreenivasan Friday for another edition of The Doubleheader, where the guys weigh in on the battle for the top spot in the Republican primary between Rick Perry and Mitt Romney, as well as President Obama's highly anticipated jobs speech.
They also reflect on the recent scandals in college football -- notably at the University of Miami and Ohio State -- as well as the benefits sports programs bring to the universities.
For more of our politics coverage, see our politics page






10 Years Later, 9/11 Conspiracy Theories Linger in Pakistan


Posted: 2011-09-02 17:22:47 UTC-04:00


Funeral procession following a suicide attack near a police station in the Lakki Marwat district of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province, Pakistan. Photo by STR/AFP/Getty Images.
Ten years after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks on the United States, many Pakistanis still don't know who perpetrated the assault, according to GlobalPost's Pakistan reporter Suzanna Koster.
"Many Pakistanis I spoke to in the six years that I've been a correspondent here say they have no idea who carried out the 9/11 attacks," she said.
In a 2008 World Public Opinion poll, 72 percent of the Pakistani respondents said they didn't know who were behind the attacks. As many people believed Israel was behind it as al-Qaida (4 percent), and 19 percent thought the United States itself carried out the attacks.
"This is an argument that I have heard over and over again," said Koster. "In this conspiracy theory, the U.S. staged the attacks to have a reason for invading Afghanistan."
The conspiracy-minded think the United States wanted to enter Afghanistan to be closer to oil sources in Central Asia, closer to China to thwart its growing economy and power, or to wipe out the Muslim community, she said.
Many voicing these perspectives were well-educated Pakistanis, she added. "For instance, a wealthy English-speaking Pakistani from an area beleaguered by the Pakistani Taliban firmly believed the U.S. wanted to extinguish Muslims."
And some Pakistanis that Koster interviewed, from hotel managers to day laborers, said there was a connection between the violence in their country, including a spate of recent suicide attacks, with the U.S.-led invasion of Afghanistan and Pakistan's compliance with it.
They say that before the invasion there were hardly any terrorist attacks, and felt that if the United States left Afghanistan -- now that al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden is dead -- the security situation would return to normal, she reported.
According to the South Asia Terrorism Portal, which counts deaths based on public sources, about 11,400 civilians and 3,900 security personnel have been killed in Pakistan in terrorist-related violence since 2003.
Koster said over the years, some Pakistanis have changed their attitudes about 9/11. "I spoke to a 24-year old student from the restive northwestern region of Pakistan. When he heard about the 9/11 attacks he was one of the Pakistanis who believed bin Laden was behind it and thought he was a hero. He thought bin Laden had waged the ultimate jihad. Later he realized he was wrong.
"He thinks bin Laden is a terrorist now, and jihad is not the same as killing innocent people," though the young man still doesn't approve of U.S. policies in Pakistan and Afghanistan, she said.
Watch: Koster's report, "Rehab for the Taliban"
On Friday's NewsHour, we'll air a report on how Afghans view 9/11. Browse all of our World coverage and follow us on Twitter.






Global Health Week in Tweets


Posted: 2011-09-02 13:57:43 UTC-04:00

Each week the NewsHour's global health unit highlights what's new in the Twitterverse from the world of health and development. Follow us on Twitter at NewsHourGlobal.
View "Twitter Round Up" on Storify






Obama's Donor Base for 2012: What We Know, What We Don't


Posted: 2011-09-02 13:22:35 UTC-04:00


President Obama shakes hands with people after speaking about immigration reform in May in El Paso, Texas. Photo by Pete Souza/White House
President Obama's public approval numbers may be down, but he still has a large number of supporters -- and they are ponying up for his re-election bid. In the second quarter alone, he took in more than $33 million in individual campaign donations.
But what does Mr. Obama's donor and support base look like in the eyes of Patchwork Nation's 12 county types? In the second quarter it was heavily based in urban and suburban America, but it ran through the exurbs and college towns as well.
The picture, however, is far from complete. The majority of Mr. Obama's quarterly contributions were impossible to follow, coming in the form donations small enough that they are categorized as un-itemized, meaning collected without the names and addresses of the contributors.
Two things stand out when you look closely at the breakdown of the Obama campaign's latest itemized quarterly donations. 
First, the donations are coming from "the right places," as far as the Obama team is concerned. They are coming from the big-city Industrial Metropolis counties and the wealthy Monied Burbs, the two county types Democrats have to win if they want the White House.
Second, the spread of itemized donations bears a striking resemblance to those of Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts.
Getting Money From the Places He Needs Votes
There are many ways to raise money beyond individual donations, of course. A 2010 Supreme Court ruling made it possible for political action committees to take in unlimited donations that they can spend in support of candidates they support. 
But individual donations are more than just money, they are votes with dollars -- and the votes in the president's fiscal ballot box are coming from the places he needs in order to be re-elected.
More than 64 percent of President Obama's itemized donations in the second quarter came from the nation's 41 Industrial Metropolis counties, which hold the biggest cities, and the 285 Monied Burb counties that sit around them. Look at the map below and you'll notice a lot of dark green around the nation's biggest cities - from metro New York to Chicagoland to the Bay Area.


Democrats running for president need those two county types for different reasons. They need to run up the margins in the Industrial Metros and they need to carry the Monied Burbs. In 2008, then-Senator Obama did both those things. He carried the Metros by a whopping 37 percent and the Burbs by surprisingly broad 10 percent.
If he comes close to those numbers again in 2012, he will likely be re-elected. Some 140 million people live in those counties, which also have the most voting-age Americans.
These contribution numbers suggest those places again will be bases of support -- though to be fair, with two-thirds of President Obama's donations going un-itemized in his reports, a realistic picture of his support is hard to nail down.
Obama vs. Romney?
President Obama's donation numbers get more interesting when you look they compare to Romney's -- at least where itemized donations are concerned.
As we noted on Thursday, the footprint of Romney's itemized second quarter donations was quite different from that of his Republican opponents. But when you compare where his money comes from to President Obama, there is a strong similarity.


In terms of proportions, Mr. Obama and Romney are drawing the same amount from the big Industrial Metro counties and the wealthy Monied Burbs: 64 percent. In other words, the biggest parts of their donation bases look like they're coming from the same types of places. 
Is that a positive for Romney or a sign of concern for Mr. Obama? That depends. 
First, remember that a majority of President Obama's donations are un-itemized and could come from anywhere. But even if the Obama/Romney donation footprints are close, it's not clear who benefits.
Yes, Romney could argue he is better equipped to go head-to-head with Mr. Obama in the places the president needs most. That's certainly a reasonable strategy for taking on a struggling incumbent.
But even if Romney can battle better in places President Obama needs to win in 2012, there's nothing saying it would be enough. And if Romney doesn't get the votes he needs from Republican strongholds, it could be for naught anyway.
Other Republican candidates, like Rep. Ron Paul, whose donations we also looked at Thursday, will likely argue their donation base is better because it fires up voters not in the president's donation base.
That will likely be a discussion among GOP voters and campaigns for the next few months. In the meantime, the Obama camp will likely feel confident that it is collecting money in places it knows it needs to win to recapture the White House.






Obama Drops Proposed Clean Air Rules


Posted: 2011-09-02 12:02:07 UTC-04:00

President Obama has reversed course on proposed smog standards, a victory for business interests that had decried the smog restrictions on the grounds that they should be postponed -- until at least 2013 -- due to the recession.
The Environmental Protection Agency had asked that new rules to reduce pollution be imposed on states and businesses to target smog, or ground-level ozone, from cars, industrial plants and other sources. EPA administrator Lisa Jackson had been working to revise a 2008 rule put in effect during the George W. Bush administration.

In a statement released by the White House, President Obama cited work on a 2006 review and a new review in 2013, saying "I want to be clear: my commitment and the commitment of my administration to protecting public health and the environment is unwavering." He pointed to economic recovery and "the importance of reducing regulatory burdens and regulatory uncertainty" for the delay.
According to The New York Times:

The issue had become a flashpoint between the administration and Republicans in Congress, who held up the proposed ozone rule as a test of the White Houses commitment to regulatory reform and job creation. Imposing the new rule before the 2012 election would have created political problems for the administration and for Democrats nationwide seeking election in a brittle economy. 

Environmental groups are expressing disappointment at the decision. In a statement, League of Conservations Voters President Gene Karpinski said "[t]he Obama administration is caving to big polluters at the expense of protecting the air we breathe" and called the decision a "huge loss for public health." The American Lung Association had also advocated for the new rules.






Split-Screen: The Art of Watching 2 Things at Once


Posted: 2011-09-02 11:15:57 UTC-04:00

Not long ago, I was at the army installation at Fort Bragg, N.C., reporting a story for the PBS NewsHour when my cellphone began to vibrate with news of a big earthquake back home in Washington, D.C.
We'd felt nothing. I'd been in the moment, interviewing a weeping 26-year-old widow about losing her husband in combat in Afghanistan. My life as split-screen.
Fast forward to this week. The president announced his intention to deliver a speech to a joint session of Congress about his plan to jumpstart the nation's sluggish, jobless, economic recovery. It just so happens (or so his press secretary insisted) that the address would fall on the same night as the first of three September Republican presidential debates. Debate sponsors were elated. This would be the ultimate political split-screen.
But House Speaker John Boehner said, uh, no. And within hours the speech was rescheduled to the next evening, when the president would have to schedule himself around the kickoff to the professional football season. By scheduling the speech at 7 p.m. ET instead of the 8 p.m. ET start he originally requested, the president narrowly averterd another split-screen. I would have put my money on the Saints vs. the Packers in any case.
We have to face the facts. Our lives -- and most certainly our politics -- are becoming a series of split-screens. Do we follow the latest jobs numbers or the latest hurricane headed for the Gulf? The flooding in Vermont and New Jersey or the wildfires and drought in Oklahoma and Texas?
We have to face the facts. Our lives -- and most certainly our politics -- are becoming a series of split-screens.
And in Washington, do we listen to the people we already agree with, or toggle back and forth between ideas and arguments to absorb as much as we can?
Are you still there? I'd clicked over to check my Twitter account on another screen, but I'm back.
In our newsroom, we periodically fall into spirited and smart mini-debates about false equivalency -- the practice of telling both sides of a story when one version clearly does not measure up. Most days, we strive to get as close as we can to finding and sharing the truth about something, whether we are discussing the merits of massive oil pipelines or the truth about who started the latest spat between the president and the Speaker of the House.
Sometimes, we miss. Most of the time this happens because the most complicated debates do not lend themselves to simple answers. But we also drop the ball on occasion because it is easier to present an on-one-hand-on-the-other-hand debate, especially on television, than it is to include three, four or five hands.
As we spend the next week looking back at the decade since the 9/11 attacks, it's worth remembering that it took years before we understood what happened. And it may take years more before the wars we took to avenge that day sort themselves out.
And as we spend the next year sorting through the options being presented in the presidential election, it might also help to occasionally shut down our split-screens, just long enough to listen to one candidate, one argument, at a time.
Gwen's Take is cross-posted with the website of Washington Week, which airs Friday night on many PBS stations. Check your local listings.






August Jobs Numbers Spell Bad News for Long-Term Growth


Posted: 2011-09-02 10:13:41 UTC-04:00


Photo by Jeff Kowalsky/Bloomberg via Getty Images.
Not good. Friday's job numbers, that is. Yes, there was an extenuating event: 48,000 or so Verizon workers walked off the job during August, and they're in the data as job losses, it seems. But the consensus forecast, even with the Verizon strike taken into account, was that the economy would add 65,000 jobs last month. It appeared to add zero instead. 
And according to the household survey of 60,000 Americans, just as many of us were unemployed this month as last: around 14 million. But reminding us again that any given month's numbers are not to be heavily relied upon, the number of people saying that were employed increased by 331,000. How can the unemployment rate have held steady, then, at 9.1%. My guess is a whole slew of retirees -- 331,000? -- keeping the labor force constant. But I've looked at these numbers long enough never to bet on them.
Caution is further reinforced by the fact that the jobs -- added numbers from earlier in the summer were revised downward by about 60,000. So none of these numbers are to be fully trusted. On the other hand, the long-term trends mean something. When the payroll survey of organizations that do the hiring reports no gain for the first time in a year, watch out. 
And watch out for Friday's market reaction, which could be brutal. Our old friend the US 10-year bond, is now back down to yielding 2.06 percent, near its all-time low -- a reliable sign that, at the moment, investors are scared, AND not anticipating much growth in the U.S. economy.
Finally, our Solman Scale of under-- and unemployed rose from 18.09 percent to 18.29 percent. That means 29,286,000 Americans say they want a full-time job, but don't have one.

This entry is cross-posted on the Making Sen$e page, where correspondent Paul Solman answers your economic and business questions. Follow Paul on Twitter.






FeedBurner delivers the world's subscriptions wherever they need to go. Publish a feed for text or podcasting? 
You should try FeedBurner today.


