East Coast earthquake: How does a 5.9 temblor happen in Virginia? - CSMonitor.com


 Skip to: Content
	Skip to: Site Navigation
	Skip to: Search




















World


USA


Commentary


Business


Environment


Innovation


Science


Culture


Books










All USA Topics
Elections
Politics
Foreign Policy
Justice
Military
Society
Education
Sports
Latest News Wires









Subscribe and save 71
%


 













Advertisements



















East Coast earthquake: How does a 5.9 temblor happen in Virginia?

Fault lines in the East are not as apparent or as active as in the West, but certain stresses can lead to a rupture. Tuesday's East Coast Earthquake was the biggest in 100 years. 


About video ads




 












Tweet

0 






							By 
		
	
				
				
	Pete Spotts, Staff writer /
						August 23, 2011
		

As if tracking hurricane Irene isn't enough, the eastern seaboard was rocked by a magnitude 5.8 earthquake Tuesday afternoon.
Skip to next paragraph







Graphic:

							Map of Virginia earthquake
					
(Rich Clabaugh/Staff)	















In Pictures: East coast earthquake









Related stories



			Virginia quake shakes up Washington, New York City
	



			Virginia quake: What was the damage on the East Coast? [VIDEO]
	



			Virginia quake: Top five political jokes on Twitter
	


Topics

Earth Science
Science and Technology
Plate Tectonics
Natural Disasters
Earthquakes
Sciences
Geology





The quake's epicenter sat about five miles southwest of the town of Mineral, Va., in the center of the state. The rupture occurred roughly 3.7 miles under the surface.Shaking was felt as far west and north as Ohio and Massachusetts and as far south as North Carolina, according to initial shaking reports filed with the US Geological Survey.IN PICTURES: East coast earthquakeAccording to USGS seismic hazard data, the area around epicenter of today's quake stands a 70 to 75 percent chance of experiencing a quake of at least magnitude 5 once every 1,000 years or so.Strong quakes originating along the eastern seaboard are rare, but they happen.In 1755, a temblor struck off of Cape Ann, north of Boston, with a magnitude now estimated at 5.9. New York City registered a magnitude 5.5 earthquake in 1884. Charleston, S.C., experienced a 7.3 earthquake in 1886. In 1925, a magnitude 7 quake struck near La Malbaie, Quebec.The quake was moderate, notes Andre Filiatraut, who heads the Multidisciplinary Center for Earthquake engineering research at the State University of New York at Buffalo. But "it is significant because we haven't had very many earthquakes of this magnitude occurring in the eastern United States or eastern Canada."The relatively low frequency of moderate-to-strong earthquakes in the eastern US compared with shaking and volcanism along the the West Coast is due to significant differences in the the geological activity taking place beneath their residents' feet. In California's case, the western edge of the state straddles an active boundary between two enormous plates in Earth's crust – the North American plate and the Pacific Plate. The San Andreas fault and its tributaries mark the boundary with plenty of shaking and mountain-building as the Pacific Plate grinds against its way north against the continent.Why quakes happen on the East CoastThe eastern seaboard, by contrast, sits in the middle of the North American Plate, but 200 million to 300 million years ago it was along an ancient plate boundary that ran through a connected Europe, Africa, and North America. 
1 | 2


							Next
							









Follow us on Twitter and Facebook.  










 












Monitor Mall.  Shop for a cause - support The Christian Science Monitor.




Read Comments

View reader comments | Comment on this story




					These comments are not screened before publication. Constructive debate about the above story is welcome, but personal attacks are not. Please do not post comments that are commercial in nature or that violate any copyright[s]. Comments that we regard as obscene, defamatory, or intended to incite violence will be removed. If you find a comment offensive, you may flag it.
				


						If you have questions about comments or comment policy, check out our FAQ page.
					

						When posting a comment, you agree to our Terms of Service.
					









 USA »




California marijuana street fair fuels debate over legalization




 World »




Doom 2: Germany lifts restrictions on landmark shooter game




 World »




Elvis comes to life in Seoul




 Innovation »




Secret iPhone prototype left at a bar -- again




 The Culture »




New Star Wars: Blu-Ray release of original trilogy contains yet more changes




 World »




China's future has arrived




 World »




Montenegrin 'jewel' revived by Balkan peace




 The Culture »




Helen Mirren in 'The Debt': movie review





Making a Difference

He pipes something precious into the homes of Phnom Penh: safe water
 


Innovation »




Japan's latest pop stars: androids and animations




 World »




Estonians commemorate independence to the tune of a 25,000-strong chorus





The Culture »




Nancy Grace, Chaz Bono cast in Dancing with the Stars Season 13 
















Understanding the basics of your credit score can help you score the best mortgage Relocation.com






About these ads 








Most viewed





			Unemployment, Inc.: Six reasons why America can't create jobs
	



			How US, British intelligence worked to bring Qaddafi's Libya in from the cold
	



			China denies arms sales to Qaddafi, admits meetings took place
	



			Dick Cheney on 'Hannity': Who is he attacking now?
	



			California marijuana street fair fuels debate over legalization
	



 



Photos of the day
09.02.11 »













CSMonitor.com on Facebook


 
















In Pictures



Space photos of the day: Gas giants
 



Inside CSMonitor.com:






 Labor Day: 5 things you probably didn't know about the end-of-summer holiday
Labor Day: From a debate surrounding the holiday's founder to an enigmatic social rule, the history of Labor Day offers plenty of material to keep you reading on your time away.  


			Unemployment, Inc.: Six reasons why America can't create jobs
	

The Monitor's weekly news quiz for Aug. 29-Sept. 2, 2011


			Witness to a decade that redefined Southeast Asia
	



			Mercy at Qaddafi's notorious Abu Salim prison
	



 





About these ads 




What happens when ordinary people decide to pay it forward? Extraordinary change. See how individuals are making a difference... 



When Ek Sonn Chan took over the water authority in Phnom Penh, Cambodia, in 1993, the enterprise couldn’t afford chlorine. Now purity is widespread, and the agency offers free in-home tests to city residents.


Ek Sonn Chan pipes something precious into the homes of Phnom Penh: safe water
Residents of Cambodia's capital city used to have little access to safe drinking water; now more than 90 percent of homes have it.







Become part of the Monitor community

36K on Facebook | 12K on Twitter | 2,250 on YouTube


























Sponsored Links




Booking Agency


Grabow Entertainment Agency






Business Resources


Business Cards






Financial Services


Swiss Annuities











Fitness


Endless Pools Swimming Machines





Legal Services


Legal Marketing





Whistleblower






Real Estate


International Shipping


Mortgage Calculator


Moving


Moving Companies


Real Estate










Speakers Bureau


Christian Speakers


Celebrity Speakers Bureau


Motivational Speakers Bureau


Sports Speakers Bureaus






Web Services

Best
          Dedicated Server

Dedicated Servers


Hosting


















About these ads


Home
About
Content Map
Contact Us
Subscribe
E-Readers
Text
Specials
Multimedia
Make Us Your Home Page


Careers
Corrections
Find us online
Advertise With Us
Monitor Mall
Today's Article on Christian Science



© The Christian Science Monitor. All Rights Reserved. Terms under which this service is provided to you. Privacy Policy. 
		
















    
 





