Patriots Question 9/11 - Responsible Criticism of the 9/11 Commission Report





                In the long history of the world, only a few generations have been  granted the role of 
                  defending freedom in its hour of maximum danger. I  do not shrink from this responsibility.
                  I welcome it.     —     John F. Kennedy, Inaugural Address Jan. 20, 1961 





   Click one of the following boxes to select a section 




    220+ Senior Military, Intelligence Service, Law Enforcement, and Government Officials


 1,500+ Engineers and Architects 


    250+ Pilots and Aviation Professionals 


    400+ Professors Question 9/11 


    300+ 9/11 Survivors and Family Members


     200+ Artists, Entertainers, and Media Professionals


    400+ Medical Professionals




ABOUT 



Alphabetized List of the 220+ Senior Military Officers and Government Officials on this Page
Fair Use Notice
Prof. Khurshid Ahmed – Member, Senate of Pakistan
Rep. Peter H. Allen, PhD – Member, State Legislature, State of New Hampshire
Roy H. Andes, MA, JD – Former Assistant Attorney General, State of Montana
Terrell Arnold – Former Deputy Director, Office of Counter-Terrorism, U.S. State Department
Berit Ås – Former Member of Parliament, Norway
Robert Baer – Former Case Officer, CIA
Harry C. Ballantyne, ASA – Chief Actuary, U.S. Social Security Administration 1982 - 2000
David E. Bauer, JD – Former Assistant Attorney General, State of Maine
Milton Bearden – Former CIA Station Chief in Pakistan, Germany, Nigeria, and Sudan
Stephen Beckow – Retired Member of the Immigration and Refugee Board of Canada
Gen. Mirza Aslam Beg – Former Chief of Staff of the Pakistani Army 
Tony Benn – Former Member of British Parliament 1942 - 2001
Philip Berg – Former Deputy Attorney General, State of Pennsylvania
William Bergman, MA, MBA – Former Economist and Senior Analyst, Federal Reserve Bank Chicago
Major Jon Bjornson, MD – Former Major, U.S. Army Medical Corps
Christine Boutin – Minister of Housing and Urban Affairs, France
Col. Robert Bowman – Director of Advanced Space Programs Development under Ford and Carter
Col. Norman M. Bradley, BA, MSEd, U.S. Army (ret) – Professional educator
Sgt. Chadwick Brooks – Pentagon Police Officer
J. Terrence "Terry" Brunner – Former Prosecutor, U.S. Justice Department
Col. Pierre-Henri Bunel – Retired French Army Officer
Fred Burks – State Department Interpreter for Presidents George W. Bush and Bill Clinton
Donald R. Bustion, JD – Former Assistant Attorney General, State of Texas
Lt. Col. Stephen Butler – Former Vice Chancellor, Defense Language Institute
George M. Campbell, PhD – Retired Research Scientist, Los Alamos National Laboratory
Robert J. Carton, MS, PhD – Former Chief, Environmental Protection Office, U.S. Army Medical Research
Senator Lincoln Chafee – Former U.S. Senator from Rhode Island
Hugo Chavez – President of Venezuela
Giulietto Chiesa – Member of European Parliament
William Christison – Former Director of the CIA's Office of Regional and Political Analysis
Raymond A. Ciccolilli – Former U.S. Sky Marshal and Senior U.S. Customs Inspector
Ramsey Clark, MA, JD – 66th United States Attorney General
Gen. Wesley Clark – Former Commanding General, U.S. European Command
Senator Max Cleland – Member of the 9/11 Commission. Former U.S. Senator from Georgia
Commander James Clow, MS, U.S. Coast Guard (ret) – Former Chief, USCG National Response Center
Angelo M. Codevilla, PhD – Former U.S. State Department Foreign Service Officer
Rev. William Sloane Coffin, Jr. – Former Captain, U.S. Army Intelligence. Former CIA Case Officer
John Cole – Former Intelligence Operations Specialist, FBI
Commander James R. Compton, III, U.S. Navy (ret) – Retired U.S. Navy officer
Mark Conrad, JD – Former Agent in Charge, Internal Affairs, U.S. Customs
Merrill Cook – Former Congressman from Utah
Robin Cook – Former Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs, United Kingdom
Francesco Cossiga – Former President of Italy
Edward Costello – Former Special Agent, Counterterrorism, FBI
Capt. Daniel Davis – Former U.S. Army Air Defense Officer and NORAD Tac Director
Senator Mark Dayton – Former U.S. Senator from Minnesota. Member Armed Services Committee
Dwain Deets, MS Physics, MS Eng – Former Director, Aerospace Projects, NASA Dryden Center
Dieter Deiseroth, JD – Judge, Federal Administrative Court, one of Germany's five Supreme Courts
Rosemary Dew – Former Supervisory Special Agent, Counterterrorism & Counterintelligence, FBI
Maj. Charles E. Dills, PhD, U.S. Air Force Reserves (ret) – World War II fighter pilot
Roland Dumas – Foreign Minister of France 1984-1986 and 1988-1993
Bogdan Dzakovic – Counterterrorism expert, FAA
Sibel Edmonds – Former Language Translation Specialist, FBI
Horst Ehmke, PhD – Former Minister of Justice, West Germany
Daniel Ellsberg. PhD – Former Special Assistant to the Assistant Secretary of Defense
Wolfram Elsner, PhD – Former Director of Planning, Ministry of Economic Affairs, State of Bremen
Steve Elson – Former Special Agent, U.S. Navy, FAA, DEA
Ellen Engleman, JD, Master Public Administration – Former Chair, National Transportation Safety Board
Larry L. Erickson, PhD – Retired NASA Aerospace Engineer and Research Scientist
Carlos Escarrá – Member of the National Assembly of Venezuela
Rep. Peter S. Espiefs, JD – Former Member, State Legislature, State of New Hampshire
Douglas Nixon Everingham, MBBS – Former Member, House of Representatives, Australia
Simcha Felder, MBA, CPA – Member of the City Council, New York City
Catherine Austin Fitts – Assistant Secretary of Housing under George H.W. Bush
Jeanette Fitzsimons – Member of Parliament, New Zealand
David Forbes – Aviation, Logistics and Govt. Security Analyst
Major Jon Fox, U.S. Marine Corps – Former Marine Corps fighter pilot. Retired commercial airline pilot
Louis Freeh – Director of the FBI 1993-2001
Yukihisa Fujita – Member, House of Councillors, Japan (Equivalent to U.S. Senate)
Pierre Galand – Former Senator, Belgium
George Galloway – Member of British Parliament
Capt. Stephen M. Gann, PhD, U.S. Navy Reserve (ret) – Nuclear Chemist
Lt. Col. David Gapp, U.S. Air Force (ret) –  Retired Pilot and Aircraft Accident Investigator
Ole Gerstrom – Former Member of Parliament, Denmark
Lt. Col. Paul F. Getty, DDS (ret) – Retired after 30 years of military service
Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, JD – U.S. Senator from New York
Bill Goodacre – Former Member of the British Columbia (Canada) Legislature
Melvin Goodman, PhD – Former Division Chief and Senior Analyst of Soviet Affairs, CIA
Morton Goulder – Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense under Presidents Nixon, Ford, Carter
Mark Graf – Former Security Supervisor, Department of Energy
Senator Bob Graham – Former U.S. Senator from Florida, Chairman of Senate Intelligence Committee
Gilbert Graham – Former Special Agent, Counterintelligence, FBI
Col. Donn de Grand-Pre – Former Director, Ground Weapons Systems, Intl. Logistics Negotiations
Philippe Gratier, MA – Retired Interpreter, European Commission 1975 - 2006
Senator Mike Gravel – Former U.S. Senator from Alaska
David L. Griscom, PhD – Retired Research Physicist, Naval Research Laboratory
Lt. General Hamid Gul – Former Director General, Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence
Petr Hajek – Deputy Head of the Office of the President of the Czech Republic
Rep. Betty B. Hall – Former Member, House of Representatives, State Legislature of New Hampshire
Burt Hall – Former Group Director, U.S. Government Accountability Office
Congressman Dan Hamburg, MA – Former Congressman from California
Commander Jens Claus Hansen, Danish Navy – Director, Political Science, Danish Defense Academy
Col. Michael Harley, U.S. Air Force (ret) – Retired Chief of Standardization, Strategic Air Command
Rep. Paul Harrington – Former Member, House of Representatives, State Legislature of New Hampshire
Mohamed Hassanein Heikal – Former Foreign Minister, Egypt
Paul Hellyer – Former Minister of National Defense and Deputy Prime Minister, Canada
Commander Dennis Henry, BS CE, PE – Retired U.S. Navy Reserve Civil Engineer
Mat Herben – Former Member of Parliament, Netherlands
Eleanor Hill, JD – Former Staff Director of the Joint Intelligence Committee Inquiry into 9/11
Joel Hirschhorn, PhD – Former Senior Staff, Congressional Office of Technology Assessment
Herbert J. Hoffman, PhD – Former Chief Mental Health Coordinator, Massachusetts Dept of Mental Health
Barbara Honegger, MS – White House Policy Analyst Under Ronald Reagan
Robin Hordon – Former FAA Air Traffic Controller.  FAA certified commercial pilot
Lt. Col. Said Huber – Attorney and Clerk of the Military Supreme Court of Switzerland
Col. David Hunt – Retired US Army Expert in Special Operations and Counter Terrorism
Lt. Commander Rolf Hustad, Royal Norwegian Navy – Former weapons specialist
Ferdinando Imposimato – Honorary President of the Supreme Court of Italy
Tadashi Inuzuka, MBA – Member, House of Councillors, Japan (Equivalent to U.S. Senate)
Gen. Leonid Ivashov – Former Chief of Staff of the Russian Armed Forces
Senator Karen S. Johnson – Arizona State Legislature
Birgitta Jónsdóttir – Member of Parliament, Iceland
George Kenney – Former Foreign Service Officer, U.S. State Dept
Senator Bob Kerrey – Member of the 9/11 Commission. Former U.S. Senator from Nebraska
Maj. George M. Kesselring, U.S. Air Force (ret) – Retired Bomber Pilot
Prof. Muhammad Ibrahim Khan – Member, Senate Of Pakistan
Diane Kleiman – Former Special Agent, U.S. Customs
Major Erik Kleinsmith – Former Chief of Intelligence, Land Information Warfare Activity, US Army
Sergei Kolesnikov, PhD, MD – Member of Parliament (State Duma), Russian Federation
Commander Ralph Kolstad – Retired U.S. Navy fighter pilot. Retired commercial airline pilot
Congressman Dennis Kucinich – 6-term Congressman from Ohio. Former mayor of Cleveland 
Heikki Kurttila, DSc – Safety Engineer, National Safety Technology Authority, Finland
Lt. Col. Karen Kwiatkowski – Former Political-Military Affairs Officer, Office of the Secretary of Defense
Sgt. William Lagasse – Pentagon Police Officer
Lt. Col. Shelton F. Lankford – Retired U.S. Marine Corps Fighter Pilot
Paul Lannoye – Former Member of European Parliament
Lynne Larkin – Former Operation Officer, CIA
Lt. Col. Jeff Latas – Retired U.S. Air Force Fighter Pilot 
Senator Patrick Leahy, JD – U.S. Senator from Vermont 
Michael Levine – Former Senior DEA Investigator
Todd Lewis – Air Traffic Controller, Dulles Tower, Washington, D.C. 
John Loftus – Former Federal Prosecutor
Kira Lukyanova – Member of Parliament (State Duma), Russian Federation
Major Glenn MacDonald – Former U.S. Army combat correspondent
Annie Machon – Former MI5 Intelligence Officer (the UK equivalent of the U.S. FBI)
David MacMichael, PhD – Former Senior Estimates Officer, CIA
Wayne Madsen – Former U.S. Navy Intelligence Officer
Nicolás Maduro – Forign Minister of Venezuela
Enver Masud, BS, MS, PE – Former Chief, Strategic and Emergency Planning, U.S. Dept. of Energy
Capt. Eric H. May – Former U.S. Army Intelligence Officer
Raymond McGovern – Former Chairman, National Intelligence Estimates, CIA
Col. Thomas W. Mcguire, Jr., U.S. Air Force (ret) – Retired Command Fighter Pilot
Congresswoman Cynthia McKinney – Former 6-term Congresswoman from Georgia
Michael Meacher – Former Undersecretary for Industry, Minister for the Environment, UK
Kenneth M. Mead, JD – Former Inspector General of the Department of Transportation
Michael Mennard, PhD – Retired career Foreign Service Officer, U.S. State Department
Major Albert M. Meyer, MHA, U.S. Air Force (ret) – Retired U.S. Air Force Officer
Norm Mineta – Former U.S. Secretary of Transportation
Capt. Edgar Mitchell, U.S. Navy (ret), DSc, Aeronautics and Astronautics – Pilot and astronaut
Tun Dr. Mahathir bin Mohamad – Former Prime Minister of Malaysia
Per Mohn – Former Deputy Representative to the Norwegian Parliament
Vice President Walter Mondale – 42nd Vice President of the United States
Gen. Hosni Mubarak – President of Egypt
Commander Ted Muga, U.S. Navy – Retired Naval aviator and former commercial airline pilot
Gen. Pervez Musharraf – President of Pakistan
Col. George Nelson, MBA – Former U.S. Air Force aircraft accident investigator
Major John Newman – Former Executive Assistant to the Director of the NSA
William R. Nugent, B EE, PE – Retired Assistant Director of Research, Library of Congress IT Services
Danielle O'Brien – Air Traffic Controller, Dulles Tower, Washington, D.C. 
Theodore J. Pahle – Former Senior Intelligence Officer, Defense Intelligence Agency
Congressman Ron Paul, MD – 9-term Congressman from Texas
Edward Peck – Deputy Director of the White House Task Force on Terrorism under Ronald Reagan
Gov. Walter Peterson – 81st Governor of New Hampshire
Capt. Scott J. Phillpott – Former Leader of the Able Danger Program
Steve Pieczenik, MD, PhD – Former Deputy Assistant Secretary of State under Nixon, Ford, and Carter
Walter Pitman, BA, MA - Former Member of the Canadian House of Commons
Maj. Brian Power-Waters – Retired Fighter Pilot, U.S. Air Force. Retired Commercial Airline Pilot
Vladimir Putin – Prime Minister of Russia
Marcus Raskin, JD – Former Staff Member, National Security Council
Paul Ray, PhD – Former Chief, Policy Research, Dept. of Energy, Mines and Resources, Canada
Col. Ronald Ray – Former Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense under Ronald Reagan
Lt. Col. Guy S. Razer, MS – Retired U.S. Air Force Fighter Pilot
Col. Robert Reid, U.S. Air Force (ret) – Retired pilot and air traffic controller
Morgan Reynolds, PhD – Former Chief Economist, U.S. Department of Labor under George W. Bush
Rep. Barbara Hull Richardson – Member, State Legislature, State of New Hampshire
Maj. Scott Ritter – Former Marine Corps Intelligence Officer and Chief UN Weapons Inspector in Iraq
Paul Craig Roberts, PhD – Assistant Secretary of the U.S. Treasury under Ronald Reagan
Maj. Douglas Rokke, PhD – Former Director U.S. Army Depleted Uranium Project
Fernando Rossi – Former Senator, Italy
Coleen Rowley – Former Special Agent and Minneapolis Division Counsel, FBI
Alan N. Sabrosky, PhD – Former Director of Studies, Strategic Studies Institute, U.S. Army War College
Simeon Sahaydachny, JD – Former Senior Legal Officer, UN Commission on International Trade Law
Harry Samit – Special Agent, FBI
Behrooz Sarshar – Former Language Translation Specialist, FBI
Michael Scheuer, PhD – Former Chief of the CIA's bin Laden unit
Mary Schiavo, JD – Former Inspector General, U.S. Department of Transportation
Lt. Col. Jochen Scholz – Retired German Air Force and NATO officer
Senator Charles Schumer – U.S. Senator from New York
Peter Dale Scott, PhD – Former Canadian Diplomat who served in the United Nations and Europe
Lt. Col. Anthony Shaffer – Former Chief, US Army Controlled HUMINT (Human Intelligence) Program
Major Reginald Shinn, U.S. Air Force (ret) – Retired officer. Served as Bombardier - Navigator
Lt. Col. Debra B. Simmons, MD, U.S. Army (ret) – Retired U.S. Army Physician
Joel M. Skousen – Former U.S. Marine Corps fighter pilot. Commercial pilot
Lt. Cdr. Bernard J. Smith, U.S. Nay (ret) – Retired carrier Naval Aviator
James D. Smith – Program Manager for Able Danger for DoD contractor, Orion Scientific
J. Michael Springmann – Former Foreign Service Officer
Lt. Col. Albert A. Stahel, PhD – Internationally recognized expert on military strategy
Robert David Steele – Former U.S. Marine Corps Intelligence Officer and CIA Case Officer
 Hans-Christian Ströbele – Member, German Bundestag (Parliament)
Maj. Gen. Albert Stubblebine – Former Commanding General, U.S. Army Intelligence
Brian Sullivan – Former Special Agent and Risk Management Specialist, FAA
Commander Larry Tortorich – Retired U.S. Navy Officer and Dept. of Homeland Security
Axel Troost, PhD – Member, German Bundestag (Parliament)
Jane Turner – Retired Special Agent, FBI
Craig Michael Uhl, MD – Former Diplomat and Desk Officer for Tanzania and Uganda, U.S. State Dept
Col. James R. Uhl, MD, MC, U.S. Army (ret) – Retired Army physician
Gianni Vattimo – Former Member of European Parliament
Gov. Jesse Ventura – 38th Governor of Minnesota 1999 - 2003. Former actor and professional wrestler
John Vincent – Retired Special Agent, Counterterrorism, FBI
Andreas von Buelow – Former State Secretary of the Federal Ministry of Defense, West Germany
Hans Wallow – Former Member of the German Bundestag (Parliament)
Robert H. Waser, BS ME, MS ME, PE – Retired Senior Research Engineer, U.S. Naval Ordinance Lab
Lon J. Waters, PhD – Former Staff Member, Sandia National Laboratories
William G. Weaver, PhD, JD – Former U.S. Army Intelligence Officer
Rep. Charles F. Weed – Member, State Legislature, State of New Hampshire
Jonathan Weisbuch, MD, MPH – Former Chief Health Officer, States of Wyoming and North Dakota
Congressman Curt Weldon – Former Vice Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee
Ernst Welteke – Former President of Deutsche Bundesbank (German Federal Bank)
Eckart Werthebach, JD – Former President, Verfassungsschutz (Germany's intelligence service)
Dr. Fred Whitehurst – Former Supervisory Special Agent, Forensic Examiner, FBI
Joseph C. Wilson IV – Retired diplomat, U.S. Foreign Service
Capt. Russ Wittenberg – Former U.S. Air Force fighter pilot and commercial airline pilot
Rep. Suzi Wizowaty, MA - Member, House of Representatives, State Legislature of Vermont
Col. Ann Wright – Retired U.S. Army officer and Former Diplomat
Robert G. Wright, Jr. – Special Agent, International Terrorism Unit, FBI
President Asif Ali Zardari – Elected President of Pakistan 2008 - present
Capt. Gregory Zeigler – Former U.S. Army Intelligence Officer
Matthew Zipoli – Former Special Response Team Officer, Department of Energy
Victor Zvagelsky – Member of Parliament (State Duma), Russian Federation

9/11 Commission Members and Staff
Thomas H. Kean – Chairman, 9/11 Commission
Lee Hamilton – Vice Chairman, 9/11 Commission
Jamie S. Gorelick – 9/11 Commissioner
John F. Lehman, Jr., PhD – 9/11 Commissioner
Timothy J. Roemer – 9/11 Commissioner
Daniel Marcus – General Counsel, 9-11 Commission
John J. Farmer, Jr. – Senior Counsel, 9/11 Commission
Peter Rundlet – Counsel, 9/11 Commission



ARTICLES
LINKS







Recent Additions to This Page
      
	 (Please also check the other six pages.)
 


Steve R. Pieczenik, MD, PhD

		Deputy Assistant Secretary of State under
		President Nixon, Ford and Carter
        Added July 17, 2011

Commander James Clow

		U.S. Coast Guard (ret)
		Former Chief, National Response Center
		U.S. Coast Guard Headquarters
        Added December 27, 2010

Roland Dumas

		Former Foreign Minister of France
        Added December 23, 2010

Major Albert M. Meyer, MHA

		U.S. Air Force (ret)
        Added December 15, 2010

Commander James R. Compton

		U.S. Navy (ret)
        Added November 1, 2010

Rev. William Sloane Coffin, Jr.

		Captain, U.S. Army Intelligence, World War II
		Former CIA Case Officer
        Added October 18, 2010

Michael Scheuer, PhD

		Former Chief of the CIA's bin Laden unit
        Added October 11, 2010

Ramsey Clark, MA, JD

		66th U.S. Attorney General
        Added September 29, 2010

Gov. Walter Peterson

		81st Governor
		State of New Hampshire
        Added May 29, 2010

IMPORTANT ARTICLE  
41 U.S. Counter-Terrorism and Intelligence Agency Veterans Challenge the Official Account of 9/11 – Official Account of 9/11: “Terribly Flawed,” “Laced with Contradictions,” “a Joke,” “a Cover-up” English, Danish,  French, German, Greek, Norwegian,  Polish, Swedish
    
	    Senior Military, Intelligence, Law Enforcement, 
        and Government Officials Question 
        the 9/11 Commission Report  
Many well known and  respected senior  U.S. military officers, intelligence services and law enforcement veterans,  and government  officials have expressed  significant  criticism of  the 9/11 Commission Report or have made public statements that contradict the Report.  Several even allege government complicity in the terrible acts of 9/11.  This page of the website is a collection of their statements. The website does not represent any organization and it should be made clear that none of these individuals are affiliated with this website.


          Listed below are statements by more than 220 of these senior officials. Their collective  voices  give credibility to the claim that the 9/11 Commission  Report is tragically flawed. These individuals cannot be simply dismissed as irresponsible believers in some 9/11 conspiracy theory. Their sincere concern, backed by their decades of service to their country, demonstrate that criticism  of the  Report is  not irresponsible, illogical, nor disloyal, per se. In fact, it can be just the opposite. (continued below) 
Contact Your  Local 9/11 Truth Group Listed Here! 
Demand a New 9/11 Investigation!



U.S. MILITARY OFFICERS



 
 

Major General Albert Stubblebine
 
      Major General Albert Stubblebine, U.S. Army (ret) – Former Commanding General of U.S. Army Intelligence  and Security Command, 1981 - 1984, commanding 15,000 intelligence and security personnel.  Also commanded the U.S. Army’s Electronic Research and Development Command and the U.S. Army’s Intelligence School and Center. Former  head of Imagery Interpretation for Scientific and Technical Intelligence. 32-year Army career. 
        Member, Military Intelligence Hall of Fame.
        
Video interview 6/28/09: 



General Stubblebine: I am Major General Albert Stubblebine. I am retired  Army Major-General. In my last assignment -- my last command -- I was responsible  for all of the Army's strategic intelligence forces around the world. I had  responsibility for the Signals Intelligence, Photo Intelligence, Counter  Intelligence, Human Intelligence. They all belonged to me, in my last assignment. …
          



I was supposed to find out what the enemy was doing, before the enemy did it  so that we could take action against the enemy. That's Intelligence, OK,  before the fact. So, we always -- always -- rely not on a single piece of data,  before we make a statement, but on multiple and the more pieces of data that you  have that correlate, the better you know exactly what is going on. …
          



So I have had a lot of experience looking at photographs. I have looked at  many, many different kinds of photographs, from many, many different platforms on many,  many different countries, around the world. 
          


Interviewer: OK. So on September the 11th, in 2001, what hit the Pentagon? 
          


General Stubblebine:  I don't know exactly what hit it, but I do know,  from the photographs that I have analyzed and looked at very, very carefully,  it was not an airplane. 
          


Interviewer:  What made you believe that? 
          


General Stubblebine:  Well, for one thing, if you look at the hole that  was made in the Pentagon, the nose penetrated far enough so that there should  have been wing marks on the walls of the Pentagon. I have been unable to find those  wing marks. So where were they? Did this vessel -- vehicle, or whatever it was --  have wings? Apparently not, because if it had had wings, they would have made  marks on the side of the Pentagon.
          



One person counteracted my theory, and said, "Oh, you've got it all  wrong. And the reason that it's wrong is that as the airplane came across, one wing  tipped down and hit the ground and broke off." I said, "Fine, that's  possible, one wing could have broken off." But if I understand airplanes  correctly, most airplanes have two wings. I haven't met an airplane with only  one wing. So where was the mark for the second wing? OK, one broke off -- there  should have been a mark for the second wing. I could not find that in any of the  photographs that I've analyzed. Now I've been very careful to not say what went  in there. Why? Because you don't have that evidence. …
          



I did -- I've never believed that it was an airplane since I've looked at  the photographs. Up until the time I looked at the photographs, I accepted what  was being said. After I looked at it -- NO WAY! …
          



We pride ourselves with the "free press." I do not believe the "free press" is  free any more. It's very expensive. It's very expensive. And the press is  saying what they have been told to say about this. 
          



Now, do I have proof of  that? No. But I believe that what is being -- what certainly the -- the stories  that were told -- all about 9/11  were false. I mean, you take a look at  the buildings falling down. They didn't fall down because airplanes hit them. They fell down because of explosives went off inside. Demolition. Look at Building  7, for God's sake. It didn't fall down to its side. It didn't fall to this  direction or that direction; just like the two Towers. …
          



When you look at the temperatures that you can create with fuel in a gas  tank or a fuel tank of an airplane, and then you investigate the amount of heat  that would be required to melt -- to melt -- the superstructure of the buildings  that came tumbling down, when you put all of that together, the one thing that  shows; It does not match the facts. What is it they do not want the public to  know? http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=daNr_TrBw6E 



Video documentary One Nation Under Siege 7/11/06: "One  of my experiences in the Army was being in charge of the Army’s Imagery  Interpretation for Scientific and Technical Intelligence during the Cold  War.  I measured pieces of Soviet  equipment from photographs. It was my job. I look at the hole in the Pentagon  and I look at the size of an airplane that was supposed to have hit the  Pentagon. And I said, ‘The plane does not fit in that hole’. So what did hit the Pentagon? What hit it?  Where is it? What's going on?" http://www.undersiegemovie.com



Editor's note: For more information on the impact at the Pentagon, see Colonel Nelson, Commander Muga, Lt. Col. Kwiatkowski, Lt. Col. Latas,  Major Rokke, Capt. Wittenberg, Capt. Davis, Barbara Honegger, April Gallop, Colonel Bunel, and Steve DeChiaro. 

Bio: http://web.archive.org




 
 

General Wesley Clark


General Wesley Clark, U.S. Army (ret) – Former Commanding General of U.S. European Command, which included all American military  activities in the 89 countries and territories of Europe, Africa, and the Middle East.  Additionally, Supreme Allied Commander Europe (SACEUR), which granted him overall command of NATO military forces in Europe 1997 - 2001.  Awarded Bronze Star, Silver Star, and Purple Heart for his service in Viet Nam and numerous subsequent medals and citations.  Graduated valedictorian of his class at West Point.  

Video interview ABC's This Week with George Stephanopoulos 3/5/06: "I think when you look at this country, right now, we need a 2-party  system that works.  We need Congress to do its job.  We need real  investigation of some of the abuses of authority that are apparently  going on at the Executive branch. ... We've never finished the investigation of 9/11 and whether the administration actually misused the intelligence information it had.  The evidence seems pretty clear to me.  I've seen that for a long time." http://securingamerica.com/node/692



Bio: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wesley_Clark




 
 

Col. Ronald D. Ray


      Col. Ronald D. Ray, U.S.  Marine Corps (ret) – Deputy  Assistant Secretary of Defense during the Reagan Administration and a highly  decorated Vietnam  veteran (two Silver Stars, a Bronze Star and a Purple Heart).  Appointed by President George H.W. Bush to  serve on the American Battle Monuments Commission (1990 - 1994), and on the 1992  Presidential Commission on the Assignment of Women in the Armed Forces.  Military Historian and Deputy Director of Field  Operations for the U.S. Marine Corps Historical Center, Washington, D.C. 1990 - 1994. 
        
Article 7/1/06: "The former Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense  under the Reagan Administration and a highly decorated Vietnam veteran  and Colonel has gone on the record to voice his doubts about the official story  of 9/11 - calling it ‘the dog that doesn't hunt.’  ‘I'm astounded that the conspiracy theory  advanced by the administration could in fact be true and the evidence does not  seem to suggest that's accurate,’ he said." http://www.propagandamatrix.com 

  		    
The specific quote follows.  A subscription is required to access the audio recording.
		  		  
 Alex Jones: Colonel, is it safe to say or is the statement accurate that you smell something rotten in the state of Denmark when it comes to 9/11?
		  		  

Col. Ray: I'm astounded that the conspiracy theory  advanced by the administration could in fact be true and the evidence does not  seem to suggest that that's accurate.  That's true. 

Bio: http://www.firstprinciplespress.org




 
 

Capt. Edgar Mitchell, DSc 


      Capt. Edgar Mitchell, U.S. Navy (ret), BS Industrial Management, BS Aeronautical Engineering, Doctor of Science, Aeronautics and Astronautics from MIT  –  Pilot and Astronaut.  Sixth man to walk on the moon (Apollo 14 mission).  Patrol bomber and attack plane pilot, U.S. Navy.  Test Pilot, Air Test  and Evaluation Squadron 5 (VX-5).  Chief of Project  Management Division, Navy Field Office for the Manned Orbiting Laboratory Project.  Graduated  first in his class from the Aerospace Research Pilot School, and served  as an instructor there.  Recipient of many awards and                 honors including the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the USN Distinguished                 Medal and three NASA Group Achievement Awards. Inducted to                 the Space Hall of Fame in 1979 and the Astronaut Hall of Fame in                 1998.  Recipient of honorary doctorates in engineering from New Mexico State University,                 the University of Akron, Carnegie Mellon University, and a ScD from                 Embry-Riddle University.  Founder of the Institute  of Noetic Sciences.

Endorser of and proposed Commissioner of a New Investigation into 9/11 as described in the New York City Ballot Initiative 11/08: "Petition to Create a NYC Independent Commission with Subpoena Power to Conduct a
          Comprehensive and Fact-Driven Investigation of All Relevant Aspects of the Tragic Events of
          September 11, 2001 and Issue a Report. 

 WHEREAS, many New York City voters believe that there remain many unanswered questions critical to establishing the truth
          about all relevant events leading up to, during and subsequent to the tragic attacks occurring on September 11, 2001 (“9/11”), and 

 WHEREAS, no prior investigation by any New York City agency or any other governmental entity has resulted in the citizens
          being provided with those critical answers or information necessary to establish the truth about those tragic events, ... 

 An independent, temporary New York City commission (the “Commission”) is hereby created to conduct a comprehensive, factdriven investigation into the events that took place on 9/11, as well as to thoroughly examine related events before and after the attacks, including any activities attempting to hide, cover up, impede or obstruct any investigation into these 9/11 events, following
          wherever the facts may lead. The Commission shall publish one or more reports of their findings." 



Website: http://www.edmitchellapollo14.com




 
 

Lt. Col. Robert Bowman, PhD 

 
Lt. Col. Robert Bowman, PhD, U.S. Air Force (ret) – Director of Advanced Space Programs Development  under Presidents Ford and Carter.  U.S. Air Force fighter pilot with over 100  combat missions. (PhD in Aeronautics and Nuclear Engineering, Cal Tech).
       Former Head of the Department of Aeronautical Engineering and Assistant Dean at the U.S. Air Force   Institute of Technology.  22-year Air Force career.  Also taught Mathematics and English at the University of Southern California, the   University of Maryland, and Phillips University.
     
Member: Political Leaders for 9/11 Truth Association Statement: 

 "Scholars and professionals with various kinds of expertise---including  architects, engineers, firefighters, intelligence officers, lawyers,  medical professionals, military officers, philosophers, religious  leaders, physical scientists, and pilots---have spoken out about  radical discrepancies between the official account of the 9/11 attacks  and what they, as independent researchers, have learned. 

 They  have established beyond any reasonable doubt that the official account  of 9/11 is false and that, therefore, the official “investigations”  have really been cover-up operations. 

 Thus far, however, there  has been no response from political leaders in Washington or, for that  matter, in other capitals around the world. Our organization, Political  Leaders for 9/11 Truth, has been formed to help bring about such a  response. 

 We believe that the truth about 9/11 needs to be  exposed now---not in 50 years as a footnote in the history books---so  the policies that have been based on the Bush-Cheney administration’s  interpretation of the 9/11 attacks can be changed. 

 We are,  therefore, calling for a new, independent investigation of 9/11 that  takes account of evidence that has been documented by independent  researchers but thus far ignored by governments and the mainstream  media."



Video 9/11/04: "A lot of these pieces of  information, taken together, prove that the official story, the official  conspiracy theory of 9/11 is a bunch of hogwash.  It’s impossible. … There’s a second group of  facts having to do with the cover up. … Taken together these things prove that  high levels of our government don’t want us to know what happened and who’s  responsible.…
		    

 Who gained from 9/11?  Who  covered up crucial information about 9/11?   And who put out the patently false stories about 9/11 in the first  place?  When you take those three things  together, I think the case is pretty clear that it’s highly placed individuals  in the administration with all roads passing through Dick Cheney. 

 I think the very kindest thing that we can  say about George W. Bush and all the people in the U.S. Government that have  been involved in this massive cover-up, the very kindest thing we can say is  that they were aware of impending attacks and let them happen.  Now some people will say that’s much too  kind, however even that is high treason and conspiracy to commit murder."  http://video.go



Signatory: Petition requesting a reinvestigation of 9/11:     
"We want  truthful answers to question. …  As  Americans of conscience, we ask for four things:

An  immediate investigation by New York Attorney General Eliot Spitzer
Immediate  investigation in Congressional Hearings. 
Media  attention to scrutinize and investigate the evidence. 
The  formation of a truly independent citizens-based inquiry." http://www.911truth.org/article 



Member:  Pilots for 9/11 Truth  Association Statement: "Pilots for 9/11 Truth is an  organization of aviation professionals and pilots throughout the globe  that have gathered together for one purpose. We are committed to seeking  the truth surrounding the events of the 11th of September 2001. Our  main focus concentrates on the four flights, maneuvers performed and  the reported pilots. We do not offer theory or point blame. However, we  are focused on determining the truth of that fateful day since the  United States Government doesn't seem to be very forthcoming with  answers." 

Website: http://www.thepatriots.us




 
 

Col. George Nelson, MBA 


      Col. George Nelson, MBA, U.S. Air Force (ret) – Former U.S. Air Force aircraft accident investigator  and airplane parts authority.  Graduate, U.S. Air Force War College.  34-year Air Force career. 
        Licensed commercial pilot.  Licensed airframe and powerplant mechanic.
       
Essay: "In all my years               of direct and indirect participation, I never witnessed nor even heard               of an aircraft loss, where the wreckage was accessible, that prevented               investigators from finding enough hard evidence to positively identify               the make, model, and specific registration number of the aircraft               -- and in most cases the precise cause of the accident. ...                       

            The government alleges that four wide-body airliners  crashed on the morning of September 11 2001, resulting in the deaths of more  than 3,000 human beings, yet not one piece of hard aircraft evidence has been  produced in an attempt to positively identify any of the four aircraft. On the  contrary, it seems only that all potential evidence was deliberately kept  hidden from public view. …                      

            With all the evidence readily available at the Pentagon crash site, any  unbiased rational investigator could only conclude that a Boeing 757 did not  fly into the Pentagon as alleged. Similarly, with all the evidence available at  the Pennsylvania  crash site, it was most doubtful that a passenger airliner caused the obvious  hole in the ground and certainly not the Boeing 757 as alleged. …                      

          As painful and heartbreaking as was the loss of innocent lives and the  lingering health problems of thousands more, a most troublesome and nightmarish  probability remains that so many Americans appear to be involved in the most  heinous conspiracy in our country's history."   http://www.physics911.net



Editor's note: For more information on the impact at the Pentagon, see General Stubblebine, Commander Muga, Lt. Col. Kwiatkowski, Lt. Col. Latas,  Major Rokke, Capt. Wittenberg, Capt. Davis, Barbara Honegger, April Gallop, Colonel Bunel, and Steve DeChiaro.

Member:  Scholars for 9/11 Truth and Justice   Association Statement: "Scholars for 9/11 Truth and Justice is a non-partisan organization consisting  of independent researchers and activists engaged  in uncovering the true nature of the September 11, 2001 attacks."

Member:  Pilots for 9/11 Truth  Association Statement: "Pilots for 9/11 Truth is an  organization of aviation professionals and pilots throughout the globe  that have gathered together for one purpose. We are committed to seeking  the truth surrounding the events of the 11th of September 2001. Our  main focus concentrates on the four flights, maneuvers performed and  the reported pilots. We do not offer theory or point blame. However, we  are focused on determining the truth of that fateful day since the  United States Government doesn't seem to be very forthcoming with  answers." 

Member: Scientific Panel Investigating Nine-Eleven  Association Statement: "We have found solid scientific grounds on which to question the interpretation               put upon the events of September 11, 2001 by the Office of the President               of the United States of America and subsequently propagated by the               major media of western nations."




 
 

Col. Ann Wright


Col. Ann Wright, U.S. Army (ret) – Retired Army officer and former U.S. Diplomat.  Served 13 years on active duty with the U.S. Army and 16 years in the U.S. Army Reserves. She was a member of the International law team in Operation Urgent Fury in Grenada and served in Panama and Somalia. She joined the Foreign Service in 1987 and  served as Deputy Chief of Mission of U.S. Embassies in Sierra Leone, Micronesia and Afghanistan. She helped reopen the US Embassy in Kabul in December, 2001.  One of three U.S. State Department officials to publicly resign in direct protest of the invasion of Iraq in March, 2003. 


Signatory of a Letter to Congress regarding the 9/11 Commission Report 9/13/04, signed  by 25 military, intelligence, and law enforcement veterans: 

 "[W]e the undersigned wish to bring to the attention  of the Congress and the people of the United States what we believe are  serious shortcomings in the report and its recommendations. … 

 Omission is one of the major flaws in the Commission’s report. We are aware of  significant issues and cases that were duly reported to the commission by those  of us with direct knowledge, but somehow escaped attention. … 

 The omission of such serious and applicable issues and information by itself  renders the report flawed, and casts doubt on the validity of many of its  recommendations. ... 

 The Commission, with its incomplete report of "facts and circumstances",
          intentional avoidance of assigning accountability, and disregard for the knowledge,
          expertise and experience of those who actually do the job, has now set about pressuring
          our Congress and our nation to hastily implement all its recommendations. ... 

 We the undersigned, who have worked within various government agencies (FBI,
          CIA, FAA, DIA, Customs) responsible for national security and public safety, call upon
          you in Congress to include the voices of those with first-hand knowledge and expertise in
        the important issues at hand. We stand ready to do our part." Link to signatories 



Interview with Laurie Van Auken, conducted by Richard Greene on Air America Radio 9/11/07:  "It's incredible some of these things that still are unanswered.  The 9/11 Report; that was totally inadequate.  I mean the questions that anybody has after reading that.  You know, like -- One of the questions, "Why would people even get in planes and come after us?"  That question was not at all addressed, much less  all of these very, very interesting events that were going on that day, like Laurie was talking about. 

 How could our national intelligence and defense operations be so inept that they could not communicate; that they could not scramble jets;  that they could not take defensive action?   And I totally agree.  I always thought the Pentagon had all sorts of air defense sort of equipment around it; that they could take out anything that was coming at it.   And for a plane to be able to just fly low right over Washington and slam into that thing is just -- I mean, you still just shake your head.  How in the world could that happen? ... 
 There's a very specific glide path that comes in for planes to land at [Reagan] National Airport [one mile from the Pentagon].  And you know whether it's somebody using a different transponder but even a plane  any plane, a military plane with a transponder going --  that was flying that low into Washington, a big plane like that should have set off alarm bells."  Occurs at about the 60% point of the two-hour recording.  Audio at http://www.911truth.org

 Bio: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ann_Wright




 
 

Col. Donn de Grand-Pre


      Col. Donn de Grand-Pre, U.S.  Army (ret) (1926 - 2009) –   Former Director, Ground Weapons Systems, Office of  International Logistics Negotiations serving as chief  Pentagon arms negotiator for the Middle East. Former Civilian Deputy Chief  of the International Division, Office of the Chief of Research and Development. Also served as Commander of Special Troops for the U.S. Army Reserves. Served as radio operator in World War II. Became commissioned officer in 1950.  Infantry troop leader and paratrooper, as well as a combat troop  commander and intelligence officer with the 27th Infantry "Wolfhound"  Regiment in Korea 1950 - 1953. Sustained major injuries in Korea 1953. FAA certified private pilot. Author of Confessions of an Arms Peddler (1979), Barbarians Inside the Gates Book 1  (2000), The Viper's Venom: Barbarians Inside the Gates (Book III) (2002), Look Homeward Cowboy: A Saga of World War II (2002), The Rattler's Revenge: Barbarians Inside the Gates (Book III) (2003), The Boys from Bent Willow: A Saga of World War II (2003).
        
Article September 11 - U.S. Government Accused by the Portugal News 3/8/02:  

 "A group of military and civilian US pilots, under the chairmanship of  Colonel Donn de Grand [sic], after deliberating non-stop for 72 hours, has  concluded that the flight crews of the four passenger airliners,  involved in the September 11th tragedy, had no control over their  aircraft. 

 In a detailed press communiqué the inquiry stated:  "The so-called terrorist attack was in fact a superbly executed  military operation carried out against the USA, requiring the utmost  professional military skill in command, communications and control. It  was flawless in timing, in the choice of selected aircraft to be used  as guided missiles and in the coordinated delivery of those missiles to  their pre-selected targets." 

 The report seriously questions  whether or not the suspect hijackers, supposedly trained on Cessna  light aircraft, could have located a target dead-on 200 miles from take  off point. It further throws into doubt their ability to master the  intricacies of the instrument flight rules (IFR) in the 45 minutes from  take off to the point of impact. Colonel de Grand said that it would be  impossible for novices to have taken control of the four aircraft and  orchestrated such a terrible act requiring military precision of the  highest order." http://www.amfirstbooks.com



Member: Veterans For 9/11 Truth  Association statement: 

 "Our mission, simply                       put, is to save the United States of America and to defend                       it from all enemies, foreign and domestic. To that end, we                       seek to restore true values, integrity, honesty, and leadership                       in government at the local, state and national level. We are                       opposed to tyranny and corruption. We seek to move this Nation                       from a state of perpetual warfare to a state of prolonged                       peace and prosperity. 

 In pursuit of our                       mission we have initially chosen to present evidence exposing                       the deception and lies that many in the military/intelligence/industrial/media                       establishment have been telling Americans and the world since                       September 11, 2001 concerning the events of that tragic day.                       Our mission includes seeking, discovering, and presenting                       evidence revealing the truth about the events of 9/11."  http://www.v911t.org





 
 

Lt. Col. Shelton F. Lankford



      Lt. Col. Shelton F. Lankford, U.S. Marine Corps (ret) – Retired U.S. Marine Corps fighter pilot with over 300 combat missions flown. Decorations include the Distinguished Flying Cross and 32 awards of the Air Medal.               Aircraft flown: Douglas A-4 Skyhawk, Lockheed C-130H Hercules. 10,000+ total hours flown. 20-year Marine Corps career. 
      
        
Article  Twenty-five U.S. Military Officers Challenge Official Account of 9/11 1/14/08: 


“September 11, 2001 seems destined to be the  watershed event of our lives and the greatest test for our democracy in our lifetimes.  The evidence of government complicity in the lead-up to the events, the failure to respond during the event, and the  astounding lack of any meaningful investigation afterwards, as well as the ignoring of evidence turned up by others that renders the official explanation impossible, may signal the end of the American experiment.  It has been used to justify all manners of measures to legalize repression at home and as a pretext for behaving as an aggressive empire abroad.  Until we demand an independent, honest, and thorough investigation and accountability for those whose action and inaction led to those events and the cover-up, our republic and our Constitution remain in the gravest danger.” http://www.opednews.com



Statement to this website 2/20/07:


"This isn't about party, it isn't about Bush Bashing. It's about our country, our constitution, and our future. ... 

 Your countrymen have been murdered and the more you delve into it the  more it looks as though they were murdered by our government, who used  it as an excuse to murder other people thousands of miles away. 

 If you ridicule others who have sincere doubts and who know factual  information that directly contradicts the official report and who want  explanations from those who hold the keys to our government, and have  motive, means, and opportunity to pull off a 9/11, but you are too lazy  or fearful, or ... to check into the facts yourself, what does that  make you? Scholars for 9/11 truth have developed reams of scientific  data. Michael Ruppert published an exhaustive account of the case from  the viewpoint of a trained investigator. David Ray Griffin provides a  context for the unanswered or badly answered questions that should nag  at anyone who pretends to love this country. 

 Are you afraid that you will learn the truth and you can't handle it? ... 

 Do a little research. Google is a wonderful tool. 

 What does it all add up to? The Commission was, as was the Warren Commission before it, a dog and pony show ... " Link to full statement



 Member:  Pilots for 9/11 Truth  Association Statement: "Pilots for 9/11 Truth is an  organization of aviation professionals and pilots throughout the globe  that have gathered together for one purpose. We are committed to seeking  the truth surrounding the events of the 11th of September 2001. Our  main focus concentrates on the four flights, maneuvers performed and  the reported pilots. We do not offer theory or point blame. However, we  are focused on determining the truth of that fateful day since the  United States Government doesn't seem to be very forthcoming with  answers."




 
 

Lt. Col. Karen Kwiatkowski, PhD 


      Lt. Col. Karen U. Kwiatkowski, PhD, U.S. Air  Force (ret) – Former Political-Military  Affairs Officer in the Office of the Secretary of Defense. Also served on the staff of the  Director of the National Security Agency. 20-year Air Force career.  Member adjunct faculty, Political Science Department, James Madison University.  Instructor, University of Maryland University College and American Public University System.  Author of African Crisis Response Initiative: Past Present and Future (2000) and Expeditionary Air Operations in Africa: Challenges and Solutions (2001).

Contributor to 9/11 and American Empire: Intellectuals Speak Out 8/23/06:  Account of Lt. Col. Karen Kwiatkowski, Pentagon employee and eyewitness to the events at the Pentagon on 9/11.  "I believe the Commission failed to deeply examine the topic at hand, failed to apply scientific rigor to its assessment of events leading up to and including 9/11, failed to produce a believable and unbiased summary of what happened, failed to fully examine why it happened, and even failed to include a set of unanswered questions for future research. ... 

 It is as a scientist that I have the most trouble with the official government conspiracy theory, mainly because it does not satisfy the rules of probability or physics.  The collapses of the World Trade Center buildings clearly violate the laws of probability and physics. ... 

 There was a dearth of visible debris on the relatively unmarked [Pentagon] lawn, where I stood only minutes after the impact.  Beyond this strange absence of airliner debris, there was no sign of  			the kind of damage to the Pentagon structure one would expect from the  			impact of a large airliner. This visible evidence or lack thereof may also  			have been apparent to the secretary of defense [Donald Rumsfeld], who in an unfortunate slip  			of the tongue referred to the aircraft that slammed into the Pentagon as a  			"missile". ... 

 I saw nothing of significance at the point of impact - no airplane metal or cargo debris was blowing on the lawn in front of the damaged building as smoke billowed from within the Pentagon. ... all of us staring at the Pentagon that morning were indeed looking for such debris, but what we expected to see was not evident. 

 The same is true with regard to the kind of damage we expected. ... But I did not see this kind of damage.  
          Rather, the facade had a rather small hole, no larger than 20 feet in diameter. Although this facade later collapsed, it remained standing for 30 or 40 minutes, with the roof line remaining relatively straight.  

 The scene, in short, was not what I would have expected from a strike by a large jetliner.  It was, however, exactly what one would expect if a missile had struck the Pentagon. ... 

 More information is certainly needed regarding the events of 9/11 and the events leading up to that terrible day."



Editor's note: For more information on the impact at the Pentagon, see General Stubblebine, Colonel Nelson, Commander Muga, Lt. Col. Latas, Major Rokke, Capt. Wittenberg, Capt. Davis, Barbara Honegger, April Gallop, Colonel Bunel, and Steve DeChiaro. 



Member: Scientific Panel Investigating Nine-Eleven  Association Statement: "We have found solid scientific grounds on which to question the interpretation               put upon the events of September 11, 2001 by the Office of the President               of the United States of America and subsequently propagated by the               major media of western nations."



 Bio: http://militaryweek.com/ 




 
 

Lt. Col. Guy S. Razer, MS 


      Lt. Col. Guy S. Razer, MS Aeronautical Science, U.S. Air Force (ret) – Retired U.S. Air Force command fighter pilot.  Former instructor; U.S. Air Force  Fighter Weapons School and NATO’s Tactical Leadership Program.  As an  Air Force weapons effects expert was responsible for wartime tasking of  most appropriate aircraft/munition for target destruction to include  steel and concrete superstructures.  Former aeronautical structures flight test engineer with McDonnell Douglas, working on advanced DC-9  autopilot systems and DC-10 flight envelope expansion stress and flutter analysis.  Tactical aircraft flown: General Dynamics F-111 Aardvark fighter/bomber, McDonnell Douglas F-15E Strike Eagle, General Dynamics / Lockheed Martin F-16 Fighting Falcon, McDonnell Douglas F-18 Hornet, Boeing B-1 Bomber, MiG-29 (Russian fighter), and Su-22 (Russian  fighter/bomber).  3,000+ fighter hours.  Combat time over Iraq.  20-year Air Force career.
      
Statement to this website 3/25/07: "After 4+ years of research  since retirement in 2002, I am 100% convinced that the attacks of September 11,  2001 were planned, organized, and committed by treasonous perpetrators that  have infiltrated the highest levels of our government.  It is now time  to take our country back. 

 The "collapse" of WTC Building 7 shows beyond any doubt that the demolitions were pre-planned.  There  is simply no way to demolish a 47-story building (on fire) over a coffee break.  It is also impossible to report the building’s collapse before it happened, as BBC  News did, unless it was pre-planned.  Further damning evidence is Larry Silverstein's video taped confession in which he states "they made that decision to pull [WTC 7] and         we watched the building collapse." [Editor's note: WTC Building 7 was 610 feet tall, 47 stories.  It would have been the tallest building in 33 states.  Although it was not hit by an airplane, it  completely collapsed into a pile of rubble in less than 7 seconds at 5:20 p.m. on 9/11, seven hours after the collapses of the Twin Towers.  However, no mention of its collapse appears in the 9/11 Commission's "full and complete account of the circumstances surrounding the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks."  Watch the collapse video here.  And six years after 9/11, the Federal government has yet to publish its promised final report that explains the cause of its collapse.] 

 We cannot let the pursuit of  justice fail.  Those of us in the military took an oath to "support and defend  the Constitution of the United    States against all enemies, foreign and  domestic".  Just because we have retired does not make that oath invalid, so it  is not just our responsibility, it is our duty to expose the real perpetrators  of 9/11 and bring them to justice, no matter how hard it is, how long it takes,  or how much we have to suffer to do it. 

 We owe it to those who have gone before  us who executed that same oath, and who are doing the same thing in Iraq and Afghanistan right now.  Those of us  who joined the military and faithfully executed orders that were given us had  to trust our leaders.  The violation and abuse of that trust is not only  heinous, but ultimately the most accurate definition of treason!"



Member:  Scholars for 9/11 Truth and Justice   Association Statement: "Scholars for 9/11 Truth and Justice is a non-partisan organization consisting  of independent researchers and activists engaged  in uncovering the true nature of the September 11, 2001 attacks."



Member:  Pilots for 9/11 Truth  Association Statement: "Pilots for 9/11 Truth is an  organization of aviation professionals and pilots throughout the globe  that have gathered together for one purpose. We are committed to seeking  the truth surrounding the events of the 11th of September 2001. Our  main focus concentrates on the four flights, maneuvers performed and  the reported pilots. We do not offer theory or point blame. However, we  are focused on determining the truth of that fateful day since the  United States Government doesn't seem to be very forthcoming with  answers."



Signatory: Petition requesting a reinvestigation of 9/11, signed by more than 1,500 Architects and Engineers: 

 "On Behalf of the People of the United States of America, the     undersigned Architects and Engineers for 9/11 Truth and     affiliates  hereby petition for, and demand, a truly     independent investigation with subpoena power in order to     uncover the full truth surrounding the events of 9/11/01 -     specifically the collapse of the World Trade Center Towers and     Building 7.  We believe that there is sufficient doubt about     the official story and therefore that the 9/11 investigation     must be re-opened and must include a full inquiry into the     possible use of explosives that may have been the actual cause     behind the destruction of the World Trade Center Towers and     WTC Building 7." http://www.ae911truth.org/joinus.php



Website: http://www.myspace.com/supereagle69 




 
 

Lt. Col. Jeff Latas 


      Lt. Col. Jeff Latas, U.S. Air Force (ret) – Former combat fighter pilot.  Aerospace  engineer.  Currently Captain at a major  airline.  Combat experience includes Desert Storm and four  tours of duty in Northern and Southern Watch.  Aircraft flown: McDonnell Douglas F-15E Strike Eagle and General Dynamics F-111 Aardvark fighter/bomber.  Former President, U.S. Air Force Accident Investigation Board.  Also served as Pentagon  Weapons Requirement Officer and as a member of the Pentagon's  Quadrennial Defense Review.  Awarded Distinguish Flying Cross for  Heroism, four Air Medals, four Meritorious Service Medals, and nine  Aerial Achievement Medals.  20-year Air Force career.
      
Audio interview with Rob Balsamo 6/25/07:  Regarding the 9/11 Commission's account of the impact of Flight 77 at the Pentagon and discrepancies with the actual Flight Data Recorder information:
				

"After I did my own analysis of it, it's obvious that there's discrepancies between the two stories;  between the 9/11 Commission and the flight data recorder information.  And I think that's where we really need to focus a lot of our attention to get the help that we need in order to  put pressure on government agencies to actually do a real investigation of 9/11.   And not just from a security standpoint, but from even an aviation standpoint, like any accident investigation would actually help the aviators out by finding  reasons for things happening. ...
				
 

            The things that really got my attention were the amount of descent rate that you had to have at the end of the flight, of Flight 77,  that  would have made it practically impossible to hit the light  poles. [Editor's note: Destruction of the light poles near the Pentagon by Flight 77 was stated in the 9/11 Commission Report.]  Essentially it would have been too high at that point to the point of impact where the main body of the airplane was hitting between the first and second floor of the Pentagon. ... 
					
 

          You know, I'd ride my bike to the Pentagon.  So, you know I'm a little bit familiar with that area.  [Editor's note: Lt. Col. Latas served as a Weapons Requirement Officer at the Pentagon.]  But, you know, that kind of descent rate it would have been impossible essentially for the results that we see physically from what the flight data recorder was recording.  Like I say, that's an area that I think deserves explanation. ...
  		  
 

          The ground track [the path of the airplane] is off from the 9/11 Commission.  There are several things that can be brought up but it's been a while since I've seen the film and looked at the flight data recorder.  And I can't think of all the discrepancies I saw, but there are several there.  [The film he refers to is Pandora's Black Box, Chapter 2, Flight of American 77.] ...
		  		

 

          And I think that we Americans need to demand further investigation just to clarify the discrepancies that you've [Pilots for 9/11 Truth] found.  And I think that we need to be getting on the phone with our Congressmen and women and letting them know that we don't accept the excuses that we're hearing now, that we want true investigators to do a true investigation." http://video.google.com



Editor's note: For more information on the impact at the Pentagon, see General Stubblebine, Colonel Nelson, Commander Muga, Lt. Col. Kwiatkowski, Major Rokke, Capt. Wittenberg, Capt. Davis, Barbara Honegger, April Gallop,  Colonel Bunel, and Steve DeChiaro. 


Member:  Pilots for 9/11 Truth  Association Statement: "Pilots for 9/11 Truth is an  organization of aviation professionals and pilots throughout the globe  that have gathered together for one purpose. We are committed to seeking  the truth surrounding the events of the 11th of September 2001. Our  main focus concentrates on the four flights, maneuvers performed and  the reported pilots. We do not offer theory or point blame. However, we  are focused on determining the truth of that fateful day since the  United States Government doesn't seem to be very forthcoming with  answers." 




 
 
 
Commander Ted Muga 


Commander Ted Muga, BS CE, U.S. Navy (ret) – Retired Pan-Am commercial airline pilot.  Commercial aircraft flown: Boeing 707 and 727.  7,500 total commercial hours flown. Retired Civil Engineer.  Retired Naval aviator.  Military aircraft flown: Grumman E-1 Tracer and E-2 Hawkeye.  3,800 total military hours flown.

Interview Alex Jones Show 4/11/07:

Alex Jones: Recap Hani Hanjour's 
          maneuver, what they claim -- go through the maneuver they claim he did and then what supposedly happened there at the Pentagon ... 
		  


Commander Muga:  The maneuver at the Pentagon was just a tight spiral coming down out of 7,000 feet.  And a commercial aircraft, while they can in fact structurally somewhat handle that maneuver, they are very, very, very difficult.  And it would take considerable training.  In other words, commercial aircraft are designed for a particular purpose and that is for comfort and for passengers and it's not for military maneuvers.   And while they are structurally capable of doing them, it takes some very, very talented pilots to do that. ... 

When a commercial airplane gets that high, it gets very, very close to getting into what you refer to as a speed  high-speed stall.  And a high-speed stall can be very, very violent on a commercial-type aircraft and you never want to get into that situation.  I just can't imagine an amateur even being able to come close to performing a maneuver of that nature.   

 And as far as hijacking the airplanes, once again getting back to the nature of pilots and airplanes, there is no way that a pilot would give up an airplane to hijackers.  ... 

 I mean, hell, a guy doesn't give up a TV remote control much less a complicated 757.  And so to think that pilots would allow a plane to be taken over by a couple of 5 foot 7, 150 pound guys with a one-inch blade boxcutter is ridiculous. 

 And also in all four planes, if you remember, none of the planes ever switched on their transponder to the hijack code.  There's a very, very simple code that you put in if you suspect that your plane is being hijacked.  It takes literally  just a split-second for you to put your hand down on the center console and flip it over.  And not one of the four planes ever transponded a hijack code, which is most, most unusual. ... 

Commercial airplanes are very, very complex pieces of machines.  And they're designed for two pilots up there, not just two amateur pilots, but two qualified commercial pilots up there.  And to think that you're going to get an amateur up into the cockpit and fly, much less navigate, it to a designated target, the probability is so low, that it's bordering on impossible."   
          Appears half way through the second hour segment at http://www.realradioarchives.com



Editor's note: For more information on the impact at the Pentagon, see General Stubblebine, Colonel Nelson, Lt. Col. Kwiatkowski, Lt. Col. Latas,  Major Rokke, Capt. Wittenberg, Capt. Davis, Barbara Honegger, April Gallop,  Colonel Bunel, and Steve DeChiaro. 



Member:  Scholars for 9/11 Truth and Justice   Association Statement: "Scholars for 9/11 Truth and Justice is a non-partisan organization consisting  of independent researchers and activists engaged  in uncovering the true nature of the September 11, 2001 attacks."



Member:  Pilots for 9/11 Truth  Association Statement: "Pilots for 9/11 Truth is an  organization of aviation professionals and pilots throughout the globe  that have gathered together for one purpose. We are committed to seeking  the truth surrounding the events of the 11th of September 2001. Our  main focus concentrates on the four flights, maneuvers performed and  the reported pilots. We do not offer theory or point blame. However, we  are focused on determining the truth of that fateful day since the  United States Government doesn't seem to be very forthcoming with  answers." 





 
 

Commander Ralph Kolstad


      Commander Ralph Kolstad, U.S. Navy (ret)  – Retired                       fighter pilot.  Former Air Combat Instructor, U.S. Navy Fighter Weapons School (Topgun).   20-year Navy career.  Aircraft flown: McDonnell Douglas F-4 Phantom, Douglas A-4 Skyhawk, and Grumman F-14 Tomcat.  Retired commercial airline captain with 27 years experience.  Aircraft flown: Boeing 727, 757 and 767, McDonnell Douglas MD-80, and Fokker F-100.  23,000+ total hours flown.
      
Statement to this website 8/20/07: "I started questioning the Sept 11, 2001 “story” only days  after the event.  It just didn't make any  sense to me.  How could a steel and  concrete building collapse after being hit by a Boeing 767?  Didn't the engineers design it to withstand a  direct hit from a Boeing 707, approximately the same size and weight of the 767?  The evidence just didn't add up. ... 

At the Pentagon, the pilot of the Boeing 757 did quite a  feat of flying.  I have 6,000 hours of  flight time in Boeing 757’s and 767’s and could not have flown it the way the  flight path was described. 

 I was also a Navy fighter pilot and Air Combat Instructor, U.S. Navy Fighter  Weapons School and have experience flying low altitude, high speed  aircraft.  I could not have done what  these beginners did.  Something stinks to  high heaven! 

 Where is the damage to the wall of the Pentagon from the  wings?  Where are the big pieces that  always break away in an accident?  Where  is all the luggage?  Where are the miles  and miles of wire, cable, and lines that are part and parcel of any large aircraft?  Where are the steel engine parts?  Where is the steel landing gear?  Where is the tail section that would have  broken into large pieces? 

 I also personally knew American Airlines Captain “Chick” Burlingame, who was  the captain of Flight 77 which allegedly hit the Pentagon, and I know he would  not have given up his airplane to crazies! 

 And at the Shanksville Pennsylvania impact site, where is  any of the wreckage?!!!  Of all the  pictures I have seen, there is only a hole!   Where is any piece of a crashed airplane?  Why was the area cordoned off, and no  inspection allowed by the normal accident personnel?  Where is any evidence at all? 

 When one starts using his own mind, and not what one was  told, there is very little to believe in the official “story”. ...

 Every question leads to another question that has not been  answered by anyone in authority. This is just the beginning as to why I don’t  believe the official “story” and why I want the truth to be told." Link to full statement 

 
Member:  Pilots for 9/11 Truth  Association Statement: "Pilots for 9/11 Truth is an  organization of aviation professionals and pilots throughout the globe  that have gathered together for one purpose. We are committed to seeking  the truth surrounding the events of the 11th of September 2001. Our  main focus concentrates on the four flights, maneuvers performed and  the reported pilots. We do not offer theory or point blame. However, we  are focused on determining the truth of that fateful day since the  United States Government doesn't seem to be very forthcoming with  answers."




 
 

Commander James Clow, MS 



      Commander James Clow, MS, U.S. Coast Guard (ret)  – Retired U.S. Coast Guard officer with extensive crisis management/emergency response training   and drill experience. Hands-on domestic and overseas emergency response   operations. Former military assignments included; Chief, USCG National Response Center, USCG Headquarters, Washington, D.C. Project   Manager, USCG Marine Safety Information System.   Chief, Environmental Protection Branch, USCG, Portsmouth, VA. Former civilian roles included; Manager,   Texaco Worldwide Response Team, Beacon, NY. Regional Response Manager,   Equiva Services Crisis Management, Houston, TX. Regional Response   Manager, Shell Oil Products, Houston, TX. Former Chair, American Petroleum   Spills Task Force, Washington, D.C. and Chair, American Petroleum Spills Advisory   Group, Washington, D.C. Graduate U.S. Coast Guard Academy.
      
Statement in support of Architects and Engineers petition: 
 "No matter how one views the videos of the Towers and Building 7   collapsing, the laws of physics MUST hold true. If F=ma appears to have   been violated (e.g., free-fall collapse of the buildings at nearly   9.8 m/sec/sec), then something is seriously amiss and one must start   looking for the "other hand" hidden beneath the table to discover what   is really happening. Your video does a good job of pointing out the   fallacies and ineptitude advanced by the government investigators."  http://www.ae911truth.org



Signatory: Petition requesting a reinvestigation of 9/11, signed by more than 1,500 Architects and Engineers: 

 "On Behalf of the People of the United States of America, the     undersigned Architects and Engineers for 9/11 Truth and     affiliates  hereby petition for, and demand, a truly     independent investigation with subpoena power in order to     uncover the full truth surrounding the events of 9/11/01 -     specifically the collapse of the World Trade Center Towers and     Building 7.  We believe that there is sufficient doubt about     the official story and therefore that the 9/11 investigation     must be re-opened and must include a full inquiry into the     possible use of explosives that may have been the actual cause     behind the destruction of the World Trade Center Towers and     WTC Building 7." http://www.ae911truth.org/joinus.php

 
Editor's note: WTC Building 7 was 610 feet tall, 47 stories.  It would have been the tallest building in 33 states.  Although it was not hit by an airplane, it  completely collapsed into a pile of rubble in less than 7 seconds at 5:20 p.m. on 9/11, seven hours after the collapses of the Twin Towers.  However, no mention of its collapse appears in the 9/11 Commission's "full and complete account of the circumstances surrounding the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks."  Watch the collapse video here.  And six years after 9/11, the Federal government has yet to publish its promised final report that explains the cause of its collapse.




 
 

Lt. Col.            Paul F. Getty, DDS



      Lt. Col. Paul F. Getty, DDS (ret)  – Retired after 30 years of military service including 13 active duty years in Navy and 11 years Army National Guard.
      
Statement in support of Architects and Engineers petition: 
 "This event changed history.  Finally having the American people  understand the complicity of our government will also change history,  for the better."  http://www.ae911truth.org



Signatory: Petition requesting a reinvestigation of 9/11, signed by more than 1,500 Architects and Engineers: 

 "On Behalf of the People of the United States of America, the     undersigned Architects and Engineers for 9/11 Truth and     affiliates  hereby petition for, and demand, a truly     independent investigation with subpoena power in order to     uncover the full truth surrounding the events of 9/11/01 -     specifically the collapse of the World Trade Center Towers and     Building 7.  We believe that there is sufficient doubt about     the official story and therefore that the 9/11 investigation     must be re-opened and must include a full inquiry into the     possible use of explosives that may have been the actual cause     behind the destruction of the World Trade Center Towers and     WTC Building 7." http://www.ae911truth.org/joinus.php

 
Editor's note: WTC Building 7 was 610 feet tall, 47 stories.  It would have been the tallest building in 33 states.  Although it was not hit by an airplane, it  completely collapsed into a pile of rubble in less than 7 seconds at 5:20 p.m. on 9/11, seven hours after the collapses of the Twin Towers.  However, no mention of its collapse appears in the 9/11 Commission's "full and complete account of the circumstances surrounding the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks."  Watch the collapse video here.  And six years after 9/11, the Federal government has yet to publish its promised final report that explains the cause of its collapse.




 
 

Joel M. Skousen


      Joel M. Skousen  – Former U.S. Marine Corps fighter pilot.  Commercial pilot.  Aircraft flown: McDonnell Douglas F-4 Phantom, Douglas A-4 Skyhawk, Grumman F-9 Cougar, North American T-2C Buckeye, various civilian planes.  Member, 
      Experimental Aircraft Association.  Member, Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association.  Former Chairman of the Conservative           National Committee in Washington DC and Executive           Editor of Conservative Digest.  Author of Essential Principles for the Conservation of Liberty (1984), The Secure Home--Architectural Design, Construction and Remodeling           of Self-Sufficient Residences and Retreats (1982, 1999),  How to Implement a High Security Shelter in the Home (1996), Strategic Relocation--North American Guide to Safe Places (1998), Foundations of the Ideal State (2007).
      
          
Essay Debunking the Debunkers 2/14/05: "For over a decade      now, the PTB [Powers That Be] have used an odd vehicle to do their debunking on a variety      of issues - Popular Mechanics Magazine (a Hearst publication).  I suppose      they are targeting the back-yard mechanic and auto-enthusiast crowd, who      are often prone to accepting conspiracy facts and theories. 

 In the March 2005 issue, PM magazine singled out 16 issues      or claims of the 9/11 skeptics that point to government collusion and systematically      attempted to debunk each one.  Of the 16, most missed the mark and almost      half were straw men arguments - either ridiculous arguments that few conspiracists      believed or restatements of the arguments that were highly distorted so      as to make them look weaker than they really were. ... 

 I am one of those who claim there are factual      arguments pointing to conspiracy, and that truth is not served by taking      cheap shots at those who see gaping flaws in the government story ... 

 There is significant      evidence that the aircraft impacts did not cause the collapse [of the Twin Towers] ... 

 The issues of the penetration hole [at the Pentagon] and the lack of large pieces      of debris simply do not jive with the official story, but they are explainable      if you include the parking lot video evidence that shows a huge white explosion      at impact. This cannot happen with an aircraft laden only with fuel.  It      can only happen in the presence of high explosives." http://www.rense.com 



Member:  Pilots for 9/11 Truth  Association Statement: "Pilots for 9/11 Truth is an  organization of aviation professionals and pilots throughout the globe  that have gathered together for one purpose. We are committed to seeking  the truth surrounding the events of the 11th of September 2001. Our  main focus concentrates on the four flights, maneuvers performed and  the reported pilots. We do not offer theory or point blame. However, we  are focused on determining the truth of that fateful day since the  United States Government doesn't seem to be very forthcoming with  answers."



Website: http://www.joelskousen.com/





 
Major Douglas Rokke, PhD 


      Major Douglas Rokke, PhD, U.S.  Army (ret) – Former Director  U.S. Army Depleted Uranium Project.  30-year Army career. Instructor, undergraduate and graduate courses in environmental science,  environmental engineering, nuclear physics, emergency management. Staff physicist at the University of Illinois at  Urbana-Champaign for 19 years.
      
        
Article 8/19/05: 


Regarding the impact at the Pentagon on  9/11/2001 "When you look at the whole thing, especially the crash site  void of airplane parts, the size of the hole left in the building and the fact  the projectile's impact penetrated numerous concrete walls, it looks like the  work of a missile.  And when you look at  the damage, it was obviously a missile."   http://www.rense.com



Speech The Science and Politics of   9/11 Conference, Madison, WI  8/5/07



		  "When we blew up the World Trade Center - I want to repeat, that it was deliberately blown up. The aircraft definitely hit the sucker. There were definite explosions inside the thing. You talk to Willie Rodriguez, you talk to the police and the fire, my guys - no two ways about it. It's on the radio communications. Everything else out there. It happened. The Pentagon, same thing. No aircraft hit the Pentagon. Totally impossible! You couldn't make the turns with a 757. You couldn't fly it in over the highway. You couldn't fly it over the light poles. You couldn't even get it that close to the ground because of turbulence." http://www.snowshoefilms.com/filmmakersnb140.html



Editor's note: For more information on the impact at the Pentagon, see General Stubblebine, Colonel Nelson, Commander Muga, Lt. Col. Kwiatkowski, Lt. Col. Latas,   Capt. Wittenberg, Capt. Davis, Barbara Honegger, April Gallop,  Colonel Bunel, and Steve DeChiaro. 




 
 

Maj. Brian Power-Waters 



Maj. Brian Power-Waters, U.S. Air Force (ret) – Retired Fighter Pilot, U.S. Air Force. Flight Engineer, Royal Canadian Air Force during World War II. Military aircraft flown: North American F-86 Sabre fighter and P-51 Mustang fighter, Lockheed P-38 Lightning fighter, Grumman F8F Bearcat fighter, Boeing B-17 Flying Fortress bomber, North American B-25 Mitchell bomber, Handley Page Halifax Mk V bomber, Douglas C-47 Skytrain (aka Dakota) and C-54 Skymaster, Curtis-Wright C-46 Commando, Beechcraft C-45 Expeditor and T-34 Mentor, North American T-6 Texan and T-28 Trojan, Lockheed T-33 Shooting Star (aka T-Bird), Boeing Stearman PT-17 Kaydet, Fairchild PT-19, Cessna UC-78 Bobcat. Aerobatic flying competitor in Pitts Special S-1S and Acro-Sport Starduster II biplanes.  

 Retired Commercial Airline Pilot flying for Mohawk Airlines, Allegheny Airlines, and US Airways for 28 years. FAA certified Flight and Ground Instructor, and Airframe and Powerplant Mechanic. Aircraft flown: British Aircraft BAC-111, Convair CV-240, CV-340, and CV-440 Metropolitan, Douglas DC-3 and DC-4, Martin 2-0-2, Martin 4-0-4. 30,000+ total hours flown. 

 Author of Is It Safe? Why Flying Commercial Airliners is Still a Risky Business (2008), 93 Seconds to Disaster (2005), Danger In The Air (2002), Margin for Error: None (1980, 2001), and Safety Last: The Dangers of Commercial Aviation  (1972, 2001).

Statement in support of Pilots for 9/11 Truth petition to U.S. Congress calling for a new investigation of 9/11:  

 "The FAA could have prevented 9/11 if they had installed rugged cockpit doors that were requested over 40 years ago. Please visit my website: http://www.brianpowerwaters.com. I have written 5 airline safety books. I believe Danger in the Air depicts 9/11 nicely. 3,000 deaths is directly attributed to the FAA. In this case, it took 3,000 deaths for the tombstone agency to do something. Good luck to you in your Petition."  http://www.petitiononline.com/911dvds



Signatory: Pilots for 9/11 Truth petition to U.S. Congress calling for a new investigation of 9/11: 

  "There are many Americans who feel that there are too many unanswered  questions regarding the events of 911. We request that the  investigation be reopened.  

 We feel that the 911 Commission did not go far enough, nor ask the  tough questions necessary to get to the truth. We are requesting the  investigation be reopened and that the mission this time be to find the  truth, the whole truth, with no stone left unturned.  ... " http://www.petitiononline.com/911dvds
 


Website: http://www.brianpowerwaters.com




 
 

Maj. Charles E. Dills, PhD


      Maj. Charles E. Dills, PhD, U.S. Air Force Reserves (ret)   – World War II  fighter pilot.  94 combat missions, 522nd Fighter Squadron, 27th  Fighter Bomber Group, 12th Tactical Air Force, based in Italy.  Aircraft flown: 
      Boeing Stearman PT-17 Kaydet, Vultee BT-13 Valiant, North American T-6 Texan, 
      Curtis P-40 Warhawk, Republic P-47 Thunderbolt, 
      North American A-36A Apache-Invader, North American P-51 Mustang, Cessna UC-78 Bobcat.  Flight instructor in P-40's. 

 Professor Emeritus of Chemistry, California Polytechnic State University, San Luis  Obispo.  Co-author of Laboratory Experiments for Organic Chemistry (1978).
      
Statement in support of Architects and Engineers petition: 

 Regarding the World Trade Center building collapses, "Explosive destruction."  http://www.ae911truth.org



Signatory: Petition requesting a reinvestigation of 9/11, signed by more than 1,500 Architects and Engineers: 

  "On Behalf of the People of the United States of America, the     undersigned Architects and Engineers for 9/11 Truth and     affiliates  hereby petition for, and demand, a truly     independent investigation with subpoena power in order to     uncover the full truth surrounding the events of 9/11/01 -     specifically the collapse of the World Trade Center Towers and     Building 7.  We believe that there is sufficient doubt about     the official story and therefore that the 9/11 investigation     must be re-opened and must include a full inquiry into the     possible use of explosives that may have been the actual cause     behind the destruction of the World Trade Center Towers and     WTC Building 7." http://www.ae911truth.org/joinus.php



Editor's note: WTC Building 7 was 610 feet tall, 47 stories.  It would have been the tallest building in 33 states.  Although it was not hit by an airplane, it  completely collapsed into a pile of rubble in less than 7 seconds at 5:20 p.m. on 9/11, seven hours after the collapses of the Twin Towers.  However, no mention of its collapse appears in the 9/11 Commission's "full and complete account of the circumstances surrounding the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks."  Watch the collapse video here.  And six years after 9/11, the Federal government has yet to publish its promised final report that explains the cause of its collapse.

Member:  Pilots for 9/11 Truth  Association Statement: "Pilots for 9/11 Truth is an  organization of aviation professionals and pilots throughout the globe  that have gathered together for one purpose. We are committed to seeking  the truth surrounding the events of the 11th of September 2001. Our  main focus concentrates on the four flights, maneuvers performed and  the reported pilots. We do not offer theory or point blame. However, we  are focused on determining the truth of that fateful day since the  United States Government doesn't seem to be very forthcoming with  answers." 



Website: http://www.charlies-web.com/flying/flying.html




 
 

Capt. Russ Wittenberg 


      Capt. Russ Wittenberg, U.S. Air Force  – Former U.S. Air Force fighter pilot with over 100 combat  missions.  Retired commercial pilot.  Flew for Pan Am  and United Airlines for 35 years.  Aircraft flown: Boeing 707, 720, 727, 737, 747, 757, 767, and 777.  30,000+ total hours flown.  Had previously flown the actual two United Airlines  aircraft that were hijacked on 9/11 (Flight 93, which impacted in Pennsylvania, and Flight 175, the second  plane to hit the WTC).
      
      
Video interview 9/11 Ripple Effect 8/07: "I flew the two actual aircraft which were involved in 9/11; the Fight  number 175 and Flight 93, the 757 that allegedly went down in  Shanksville and Flight 175 is the aircraft that's alleged to have hit  the South Tower. I don't believe it's possible for, like I said, for a terrorist, a so-called  terrorist to train on a [Cessna] 172, then jump in a cockpit of a 757-767 class  cockpit, and vertical navigate the aircraft, lateral navigate the  aircraft, and fly the airplane at speeds exceeding it's design limit  speed by well over 100 knots, make high-speed high-banked turns, exceeding -- pulling probably 5, 6, 7 G's.  And the aircraft would literally fall out of the sky.  I couldn't do it and I'm absolutely  positive they couldn't do it."  http://americanbuddhist.net



Article 7/17/05:  "The government story they handed  us about 9/11 is total B.S. plain and simple." … Wittenberg convincingly argued there  was absolutely no possibility that Flight 77 could have "descended 7,000 feet  in two minutes, all the while performing a steep 280 degree banked turn before  crashing into the Pentagon's first floor wall without touching the lawn."…  

 "For a guy to just jump into the cockpit and fly  like an ace is impossible - there is not one chance in a thousand," said  Wittenberg, recalling that when he made the jump from Boeing 727's to the  highly sophisticated computerized characteristics of the 737's through 767's it  took him considerable time to feel comfortable flying." http://www.arcticbeacon.com



Audio Interview 9/16/04: Regarding Flight  77, which allegedly hit the Pentagon.  "The  airplane could not have flown at those speeds which they said it did without  going into what they call a high speed stall.   The airplane won’t go that fast if you start pulling those high G  maneuvers at those bank angles. … To expect this alleged  airplane to run these maneuvers with a total amateur at the controls is simply ludicrous... 

 It’s roughly a 100 ton airplane.  And an  airplane that weighs 100 tons all assembled is still going to have 100 tons of  disassembled trash and parts after it hits a building.  There was no wreckage from a 757 at the  Pentagon. … The vehicle that hit the Pentagon was not Flight 77.  We think, as you may have heard before, it  was a cruise missile." http://911underground.com



Editor's note: For more information on the impact at the Pentagon, see General Stubblebine, Colonel Nelson, Commander Muga, Lt. Col. Kwiatkowski, Lt. Col. Latas, Major Rokke, Capt. Davis, Barbara Honegger, April Gallop, Colonel Bunel, and Steve DeChiaro. 



Member:  Pilots for 9/11 Truth  Association Statement: "Pilots for 9/11 Truth is an  organization of aviation professionals and pilots throughout the globe  that have gathered together for one purpose. We are committed to seeking  the truth surrounding the events of the 11th of September 2001. Our  main focus concentrates on the four flights, maneuvers performed and  the reported pilots. We do not offer theory or point blame. However, we  are focused on determining the truth of that fateful day since the  United States Government doesn't seem to be very forthcoming with  answers." 



Member: Scientific Panel Investigating Nine-Eleven  Association Statement: "We have found solid scientific grounds on which to question the interpretation               put upon the events of September 11, 2001 by the Office of the President               of the United States of America and subsequently propagated by the               major media of western nations."




 
 

Capt. Daniel Davis


      Capt. Daniel Davis, U.S. Army  – Former U.S. Army Air Defense Officer and NORAD Tac Director.  Decorated with the Bronze Star and the Soldiers Medal for bravery under fire and the Purple  Heart for injuries sustained in Viet Nam.  Also served in the Army Air Defense Command as Nike   Missile Battery Control Officer for the  Chicago-Milwaukee Defense Area.  Founder and former CEO of Turbine  Technology Services Corp., a turbine (jet engine)  services and maintenance company (15 years).  Former Senior Manager at General Electric Turbine (jet) Engine Division (15 years).  Private pilot.
        
Statement to this website 3/23/07: "As a  former General Electric Turbine engineering specialist and manager and  then CEO of a turbine engineering company, I can guarantee that none of  the high tech, high temperature alloy engines on any of the four planes  that crashed on 9/11 would be completely destroyed, burned, shattered  or melted in any crash or fire.  Wrecked, yes, but not destroyed.  Where  are all of those engines, particularly at the Pentagon?  If jet powered  aircraft crashed on 9/11, those engines, plus wings and tail assembly,  would be there. 

 Additionally, in my experience as an officer in NORAD as a Tactical  Director for the Chicago-Milwaukee Air Defense and as a current private  pilot, there is no way that an aircraft on instrument flight plans (all  commercial flights are IFR) would not be intercepted when they deviate  from their flight plan, turn off their transponders, or stop  communication with Air Traffic Control.  No way!  With very bad luck,  perhaps one could slip by, but no there's no way all four of them  could! 

 Finally, going over the  hill and highway and crashing into the Pentagon right at the  wall/ground interface is nearly impossible for even a small slow single  engine airplane and no way for a 757. Maybe the best pilot in the world  could accomplish that but not these unskilled "terrorists". 

 Attempts to obscure  facts by calling them a "Conspiracy Theory" does not change the truth.   It seems, "Something is rotten in the State."

Editor's note: For more information on the impact at the Pentagon, see General Stubblebine, Colonel Nelson, Commander Muga, Lt. Col. Kwiatkowski,  Lt. Col. Latas, Major Rokke, Capt. Wittenberg, Barbara Honegger, April Gallop,  Colonel Bunel, and Steve DeChiaro. 



Statement in support of Architects and Engineers petition: 

 "The government conspiracy theory does not hold up to scrutiny. As a  professional with over 30 years experience working with gas turbines  (jet engines) and fuels - kerosene (jet fuel) does not burn in any open  flame hot enough to effect steel - well under 1000 deg F. Also bogus  are the explanations regarding why no planes were intercepted. SOP [Standard Operating Procedure] is  they are always, always intercepted if they stray off course and/or  turn off the transponder like these flights all did. No command  decision needed. Has our government ever been untruthful to us?"  http://www.ae911truth.org 



Signatory: Petition requesting a reinvestigation of 9/11, signed by more than 1,500 Architects and Engineers: 

 "On Behalf of the People of the United States of America, the     undersigned Architects and Engineers for 9/11 Truth and     affiliates  hereby petition for, and demand, a truly     independent investigation with subpoena power in order to     uncover the full truth surrounding the events of 9/11/01 -     specifically the collapse of the World Trade Center Towers and     Building 7.  We believe that there is sufficient doubt about     the official story and therefore that the 9/11 investigation     must be re-opened and must include a full inquiry into the     possible use of explosives that may have been the actual cause     behind the destruction of the World Trade Center Towers and     WTC Building 7." http://www.ae911truth.org/joinus.php



Editor's note: WTC Building 7 was 610 feet tall, 47 stories.  It would have been the tallest building in 33 states.  Although it was not hit by an airplane, it  completely collapsed into a pile of rubble in less than 7 seconds at 5:20 p.m. on 9/11, seven hours after the collapses of the Twin Towers.  However, no mention of its collapse appears in the 9/11 Commission's "full and complete account of the circumstances surrounding the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks."  Watch the collapse video here.  And six years after 9/11, the Federal government has yet to publish its promised final report that explains the cause of its collapse.
 



 
 

Alan N. Sabrosky, PhD 


      Alan N. Sabrosky, PhD  – Former Director of Studies, Strategic Studies   Institute and holder of the General of the Army Douglas MacArthur Chair   of Research, U.S. Army War College. A Marine   Corps Vietnam veteran with 10 years of service. Graduate of the U.S. Army War College. Teaching and research appointments have included the   United States Military Academy, the Center for Strategic and   International Studies (CSIS), Middlebury College and Catholic   University.  While in government service, he held concurrent adjunct   professorships at Georgetown University and the Johns Hopkins University   School of Advanced International Studies (SAIS). Writer and consultant specializing in national and   international security affairs, lecturing widely on defense and foreign affairs in the United States and   abroad. His published work   includes thirteen books or monographs and over one hundred forty   articles, chapters and book reviews. Author, co-author, or editor of Prisoners of War: Nation States in the Modern Era (1990), The Recourse to War: An Appraisal of   the "Weinberger Doctrine" (1988), Alliances in U.S. Foreign Policy (1988), The   Strategic Dimension of Military Manpower (1987), Polarity   and War: The Changing Structure of International Conflict (1985), Great   Power Games: The Sino American Power Transition (1982).
      
Essay "Treason, Betrayal and Deceit: 9/11 and Beyond" 9/10/09: 

 "The official 9/11 Commission's work and report were at best an incomplete exercise. Many people dismiss the findings of the Commission, and that includes its co-chairs [ Thomas Kean and Lee Hamilton ]. Many others who utterly distrust the 9/11 Commission report, dismiss the US Government’s explanation of it, and point to both an official cover-up and an “inside job,” include veteran fighter pilots, EMTs (Emergency Medical Technicians), air defense experts, experienced commercial pilots, demolition experts, architects and civil engineers – none of them professions that inherently attract and retain the gullible and credulous. 

 Several things are very clear to me from a careful assessment of both official and critical evaluations of the 9/11 attacks. First, the striking aircraft alone simply could not have brought down either of the two buildings in the manner in which they fell, much less a third building which was not hit by a plane (I expect the one intended to do that as a "cover" had ended up in that Pennsylvania field), given the available physical evidence and a wealth of expert testimony. This means the attackers had assistance on the ground, and it had to have been active before the attacks occurred: preparing buildings for controlled demolition is not something done haphazardly in the midst of chaos. 

 Second, only two intelligence agencies had the expertise, assets, access and political protection to execute 9/11 in the air and on the ground: our CIA and Israel's Mossad. Only one had the incentive, using the “who benefits” principle: Mossad. And that incentive dovetailed perfectly with the neo-con’s agenda and explicitly expressed need for a catalytic event to mobilize the American public for their wars, using American military power to destroy Israel’s enemies. Only the unexpected strength of the Iraqi resistance kept Syria and Iran from being attacked in the second Bush Administration. Thus, the evidential trail for 9/11 and the wars in Afghanistan & Iraq run from PNAC, AIPAC and their cohorts; through the mostly Jewish neo-cons in the Bush Administration; and back to the Israeli government. None of the denials and political machinations can alter that essential reality. Terms such as treason, betrayal and deceit do not overstate the case against them. 

 Finally, we need to take a hard look at why the mainstream media (MSM) have paid more attention to Sarah Palin’s wardrobe than they have to dissecting blatant falsehoods, discrepancies and inconsistencies in the US Government’s treatment of 9/11 and its aftermath. And the reason is that on this issue, all are on the same side, and the official line is the one they all prefer – “all” meaning the PNAC alumni who took over the Bush Administration’s national security apparatus and their counterparts in the Obama administration, AIPAC and the rest of the numerous Jewish PACs, the MSM owners and Israel." http://www.informationclearinghouse.info/article23460.htm




 
 

Barbara Honegger, MS 


      Barbara Honegger, MS  – Senior Military Affairs  Journalist at the Naval   Postgraduate School, the Department of Defense's advanced  science, technology and national security affairs university   (1995 - present).   Graduate of the Naval War College master's program in National Security Decision Making (2001).  Former White House Policy Analyst and Special Assistant to  the Assistant to President Ronald Reagan (1981 - 1983). 
        Former Director of the Attorney  General's Anti-Discrimination Law Review, U.S. Department of  Justice (1982 - 1983).   Author of the pioneering Irangate expose October Surprise (1989).  Author of the chapter "The Pentagon Attack Papers" included in The  Terror Conspiracy: Deception, 9/11 and the Loss of Liberty by Jim Marrs (2006).
        
Member: Political Leaders for 9/11 Truth Association Statement: 

 "Scholars and professionals with various kinds of expertise---including  architects, engineers, firefighters, intelligence officers, lawyers,  medical professionals, military officers, philosophers, religious  leaders, physical scientists, and pilots---have spoken out about  radical discrepancies between the official account of the 9/11 attacks  and what they, as independent researchers, have learned. 

 They  have established beyond any reasonable doubt that the official account  of 9/11 is false and that, therefore, the official “investigations”  have really been cover-up operations. 

 Thus far, however, there  has been no response from political leaders in Washington or, for that  matter, in other capitals around the world. Our organization, Political  Leaders for 9/11 Truth, has been formed to help bring about such a  response. 

 We believe that the truth about 9/11 needs to be  exposed now---not in 50 years as a footnote in the history books---so  the policies that have been based on the Bush-Cheney administration’s  interpretation of the 9/11 attacks can be changed. 

 We are,  therefore, calling for a new, independent investigation of 9/11 that  takes account of evidence that has been documented by independent  researchers but thus far ignored by governments and the mainstream  media."



Contributing author to  The  Terror Conspiracy: Deception, 9/11 and the Loss of Liberty 9/6/06:  "The US  military, not al Qaeda, had the sustained access weeks before 9/11 to also  plant controlled demolition charges throughout the superstructures of WTC 1 and  WTC 2, and in WTC 7, which brought down all three buildings on 9/11. ... 

 A US military plane, not one piloted by  al Qaeda, performed the highly skilled, high−speed 280−degree dive towards the  Pentagon that Air Traffic Controllers on 9/11 were sure was a military plane as  they watched it on their screens. Only a military aircraft, not a civilian  plane flown by al Qaeda, would have given off the "Friendly" signal  needed to disable the Pentagon’s anti−aircraft missile batteries as it  approached the building. 

 Only the US military, not al Qaeda, had the  ability to break all of its Standard Operating Procedures to paralyze its own  emergency response system." http://physics911.net/pdf/honegger.pdf



Editor's note: For more information on the impact at the Pentagon, see General Stubblebine, Colonel Nelson, Commander Muga, Lt. Col. Kwiatkowski,  Lt. Col. Latas, Major Rokke, Capt. Wittenberg, Capt. Davis, April Gallop,  Colonel Bunel, and Steve DeChiaro. 
 



 
 

Major John M. Newman, PhD 


      Major John M. Newman, PhD, U.S. Army (ret) – Former Executive Assistant to the Director of the National Security Agency. Former military attaché in China.  21-year career in U.S. Army Intelligence. Currently, professor of history and international relations at the University of Maryland.
      
      
Congressional briefing testimony 7/22/05: "It falls to me this morning  to bring to your attention the story of Saeed Sheikh, whose full name is Ahmed  Omar Saeed Sheikh, and his astonishing rise to power in Al Qaeda, his crucial  role in 9/11, which is completely, utterly, missing from the 9/11 Commission  report… 

The 9/11 Commission which studied US intelligence and law enforcement community  performance in great detail, (maybe not so much great detail, but they did), neglected  to cover the community’s performance during the weeks following the attacks to  determine who was responsible for them, not a word about that in the Report. 

 The Report does discuss the immediate US  responses but the immediate investigation is never addressed, and anyone who  has closely studied the post-9/11 investigation knows that the first breakthrough  came two weeks into the investigation when the money transfers from the United Arab Emirates  to the hijackers were uncovered. 

 Furthermore, if you have studied that investigation, you know there is no  disputing that while investigators may have struggled with the identity of the  paymaster, they were clear about one thing, he was Al Qaeda’s finance chief.  For this reason alone you have to ask why the 9/11 Commission Report never  mentions the finance chief’s role as the 9/11 paymaster." http://www.vt911.org



Editor's note: Despite the finding of the Joint House-Senate Select Intelligence Committee's 2002 Report (p.415) of "sources of foreign support for some of the September 11 hijackers", the 9/11 Commission Report (p. 172) states, "Similarly, we have seen no evidence that any foreign government -- or government official -- supplied any funding."  For more information on foreign support of the 9/11 hijackers,  see Senator Bob Graham, Congresswoman Cynthia McKinney, William Bergman, and Michael Meacher.




 
 

Major Scott Ritter 


      Major Scott Ritter, U.S. Marine Corps – Former Marine Corps Intelligence Officer and Chief Weapons  Inspector for the United Nations Special Commission in Iraq 1991 - 1998.
      
      
Video 1/19/08:  Regarding the events of 9/11  "You articulated the one argument that I support whole-heartedly, which is the absolute requirement to find out what happened; that the 9/11 Commission's Report is inadequate to the task.  And that until they answer all the questions, you will leave open, at least in the mind of certain individuals, the possibility of collusion, the possibility of conspiracy ... 

 We have an absolute requirement to know what happened on 9/11.  And no stone should be left unturned.  And the 9/11 Commission Report was not up to the task.  And there must be a re-opening of the investigation, so that we the people of the United States know what occurred on that horrific day. 

 And that way it lays to rest all conspiracies.  We'll find out what happened.  Did Bush and Cheney plan the demise of the building?  Was this a terrorist attack by Al Qaida?  Or was it something in between?  We frankly don't know because the body of data is incomplete.  So, let's find the body of data and let's not rush to judgment. ... 

 Let's admit that we didn't get a good report.  Let's go out there and get the best report possible.  And let's get to the truth so we know exactly what happened, so we're not speculating."  http://www.youtube.com



Video 7/22/06: "I,  like the others, are frustrated by the 9/11 Commission Report, by the lack of  transparency on the part of the United States government, both in terms of the  executive branch and the legislative branch when it comes to putting out on the  table all facts known to the 9/11 case." http://video.go





 
 

Major Glenn MacDonald 



      Major Glenn MacDonald, U.S. Army Reserve (ret) – Former U.S. Army combat correspondent in Vietnam, 1966 - 1969.  Former ABC and UPI News Correspondent.  Former Military Historian, U.S. Army War College.  Co-founder and Editor-in-Chief of MilitaryCorruption.com.

Video interview 9/11 Ripple Effect 8/07: Regarding the apparent additional equipment on the underside of Flight 175, the second plane to impact the Twin Towers. 

 "One of the things that jumped out at me when I looked at the footage of the video of Flight 175 as it went into the World Trade Center is it appeared to me that there was something on the underfuselage of that aircraft that did not belong there, at least not with a commercial airliner.
		  

 
          Now, I'll tell you where I have seen 
          attachments that look like that -- on military aircraft.  So the question we have to answer now is, 'Was that the commercial airliner that hit the World Trade Center or possibly was it an aircraft that looked very similar but was a military-type airplane?' ..."  at 10:05 of the video
		   

 "Well, the pod could have been a number of things.  It could have been even a missile attached.  It could have been some kind of explosive attached.  But whatever it was, it didn't belong there in a commercial flight ... "  at 13:59 of the video 
		  

 "The most valuable commodity to a newsman is his credibility  and I don't take lightly investigating what happened on 9/11 because it could end up being one of the biggest crimes ever perpetrated in American history."  at 1:10:58 of the video 
          at http://www.911rippleeffect.com



Website:  http://www.militarycorruption.com/




 
 

Capt. Gregory M. Zeigler, PhD 


      Capt. Gregory M. Zeigler, PhD, U.S. Army – Former U.S. Army Intelligence Officer
      
      
Statement to this website 9/19/06: "I knew from September 18, 2001, that the official   story about 9/11 was false. ... [A]nomalies   poured in rapidly: the hijackers' names appearing in none of the published   flight passenger lists, BBC reports of stolen identities of the alleged   hijackers or the alleged hijackers being found alive, the obvious demolitions of   WTC 1 and 2 [each 1300+ feet tall, 110 stories], and WTC 7, the lack of identifiable Boeing 757 wreckage at the Pentagon ... Link to full statement     [Editor's note: WTC Building 7 was 610 feet tall, 47 stories.  It would have been the tallest building in 33 states.  Although it was not hit by an airplane, it  completely collapsed into a pile of rubble in less than 7 seconds at 5:20 p.m. on 9/11, seven hours after the collapses of the Twin Towers.  However, no mention of its collapse appears in the 9/11 Commission's "full and complete account of the circumstances surrounding the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks."  Watch the collapse video here.  And six years after 9/11, the Federal government has yet to publish its promised final report that explains the cause of its collapse.]



Member:  Scholars for 9/11 Truth and Justice   Association Statement: "Scholars for 9/11 Truth and Justice is a non-partisan organization consisting  of independent researchers and activists engaged  in uncovering the true nature of the September 11, 2001 attacks."



 
 

Capt. Eric H. May 

      Capt. Eric H. May, U.S. Army (ret) – Former U.S. Army Intelligence Officer. Former inspector and interpreter for the Intermediate Nuclear Forces Treaty team.
      
      
Essay 9/11 and Non-investigation: "As a former Army officer, my tendency immediately after 911 was to  rally 'round the colors and defend the country against what I then  thought was an insidious, malicious all-Arab entity called Al-Qaida.   In fact, in April of 2002, I attempted to reactivate my then-retired  commission to return to serve my country in its time of peril. ... 

 Now I view the 911 event as Professor David Griffin, author of The New Pearl Harbor, views it: as a matter that implies either 

 A)  passive participation by the Bush White House through a deliberate stand-down of proper  defense procedures that (if followed) would have led US air assets to a  quick identification and confrontation of the passenger aircraft that  impacted WTC 1 and WTC 2, or worse ... 

 B) active execution  of a plot by rogue elements of government, starting with the White  House itself, in creating a spectacle of destruction that would lead  the United States into an invasion of the Middle East ..."  http://mujca.com/captain.htm



Signatory: Petition requesting a reinvestigation of 9/11:     
          "We want  truthful answers to question. …  As  Americans of conscience, we ask for four things:
          
An  immediate investigation by New York Attorney General Eliot Spitzer 
Immediate  investigation in Congressional Hearings. 
Media  attention to scrutinize and investigate the evidence. 
The  formation of a truly independent citizens-based inquiry." http://www.911truth.org/article 






 
 

Wayne Madsen 


      Wayne Madsen – Former U.S. Navy Intelligence Officer, specialist in electronic surveillance and security.  Formerly assigned to the National Security Agency and the State Department.  Currently, investigative journalist,   nationally distributed columnist, and author.  Senior Fellow, Electronic Privacy Information  Center (EPIC), a non-partisan privacy public advocacy group in Washington, DC.  Frequent media commentator on terrorism and security matters.  Author of Overthrow a Fascist Regime on $15 a Day (2008), Jaded Tasks: Big Oil, Black Ops & Brass Plates (2006), Genocide and Covert Operations in Africa 1993-1999 (1999), The Handbook of Personal Data Protection (1992).  Co-author   of America's Nightmare: The Presidency of George Bush II (2006).
      
Speech 11/11/06 : "After five years of talking to many individuals in the intelligence community, in the military, foreign intelligence agencies, and a whole host of other people, people from the air traffic control community, the FAA, I came to the conclusion that after five years  what we saw happen on that morning of September 11, 2001, was the result of a highly-compartmentalized covert operation  to bring about a fascist coup in this country. ... 

 These people need to be brought to justice, if not by our own Congress, then by an international tribunal in the Hague, in the Netherlands.  Bush, Blair, Rumsfeld, Cheney should be sitting in the same dockets where Milosevic and the Croatia-Serbia war criminals sat." http://video.google.com



Endorsement of The New Pearl Harbor: "David Griffin's The New Pearl Harbor belongs                                  on the book shelves of all those who, in any  way, doubt the veracity of the accounts presented to                                  the public by the Bush administration concerning                                  the worst terrorist attack in America's history.                                  The facts presented in this book are disturbing — and                                  they should be. Griffin's book goes a long way                                  in answering the age-old question inherent in                                  American political scandals: What did the President                                  know, and when did he know it?" http://www.interlinkbooks.com



Bio: http://www.waynemadsenreport.com





 
 

Commander James R. Compton  



      Commander James R. Compton, III, U.S. Navy (ret) – FAA certified commercial airplane and helicopter pilot
      
Endorsement of National Security Alert, a video documentary by Citizens Investigation Team. The 81-minute documentary contains first-person interviews with dozens of eyewitnesses to the event at the Pentagon on 9/11 that contradict the official account of 9/11 and provide evidence establishing that the plane that was seen flying low         over Arlington on 9/11/01 did not in fact hit the Pentagon. 

"Citizen Investigation Team did an outstanding job of finding witnesses and putting the facts together.  It's               the best reporting I've seen in a long, long time.  This video is a must see for every citizen in our country." http://www.citizeninvestigationteam.com/praise.html




 
 

Lt. Col. Anthony Shaffer


      Lt. Col. Anthony Shaffer, U.S. Army Reserve (ret)  – Former Chief of the Army’s Controlled HUMINT (Human Intelligence) Program, overseeing Army Intelligence and Security Command’s global controlled  HUMINT efforts. A former member of the Able Danger data mining program  that targeted Al Qaeda’s global structure.    Former Commander of Special Troops Battalion, 9th Theater Support Command. Awarded the Bronze Star for bravery. Fellow, Center for Advanced Defense Studies.  23-year military intelligence career.
        
Personal endorsement of a New Investigation into 9/11 as described in the New York City Ballot Initiative:




            "I endorse the NYC CAN campaign and support  the need for a new, independent, investigation of the events and  failures that lead up to the 9/11 attacks.
          



The original 9/11 Commission inquiry became an exercise in bureaucratic ass-covering and obfuscation of accountability.

          



I had no intention of joining the ranks of “whistle blowers”. In 2003,  when I made my disclosure to the 9/11 commission regarding the  existence of a pre 9/11 offensive counter-terrorism operation that had  discovered several of the 9/11 terrorists a full year before the 9/11  attacks my intention was to simply tell the truth, and fulfill my oath  of office.
          



Unfortunately, this was a minority view.
          



Instead of supporting the search for the truth, members of the  Bush/Rumsfeld Department of Defense did everything within their power  to destroy my 20 year career as a clandestine intelligence operative  simply to try to discredit me and my disclosure.
          



In 2006 I testified before Congress on the pre-9/11 issues regarding  the systemic failures I was personally aware of – in both open and  closed sessions – and yet nothing was ever done to correct these  problems.
          



The families and victims of the 9/11 attacks are owed a real accounting  of why their government failed them. We all deserve answers.
          



The full accounting has never been made. This accounting is long  overdue. I hope the NYC CAN effort will result in a real, detailed,  independent investigation that will reveal the full truth – whatever  that truth may be." http://www.opednews.com



Testimony  before the House Armed Services Committee 2/15/06: Regarding the Able Danger project -  "... basic law enforcement investigative techniques, with 21st Century data  mining and analytical tools ... resulted in the  establishment of a new form of intelligence collection – and the  identification of Mohammed Atta and several other of the 9-11  terrorists as having links to Al Qaeda leadership a full year in  advance of the attacks. ... 

 After contact by two separate members of the  ABLE DANGER team, … the 9-11 [Commission] staff refused to perform any in-depth review or  investigation of the issues that were identified to them. … It was their job to  do a thorough investigation of these claims – to not simply dismiss them based  on what many now believe was a "preconceived" conclusion to the 9-11 story they  wished to tell. … I consider this a failure of the 9-11 staff – a failure that  the 9-11 Commissioners themselves were victimized by – and continue to have  perpetrated on them by the staff as is evidenced by their recent, groundless  conclusion that ABLE DANGER’s findings were "urban legend". http://www.abledan



Interview Fox News 8/24/05: "Why did this operation, which was created in '99 to target Al Qaeda globally, offensively, why was that turned off in the Spring of 2001, four months before we were attacked?  I can't answer that, either.  I can tell you I was ordered out of the operation directly by a two-star general.  But I don't know what the bigger picture was of why you'd want to stop an operation going after the very target who attacked us, in advance, why you'd want to turn it off." at 3:00 into the video at http://video.google.com



Editor's note: The 9/11 Commission Report asserts that only three of the alleged hijackers were known to U.S. intelligence agencies prior to 9/11; Nawaf al-Hazmi, Salem al-Hazmi, and Khalid al-Mihdar.  There is no mention in the Report that the names and photographs of alleged hijacker Marwan al-Shehhi and alleged ring-leader Mohamed Atta had been identified by the Department of Defense antiterrorist program known as Able Danger more than a year prior to 9/11 and that they were known to be affiliates of al-Qaida. Able Danger also identified Nawaf al-Hazmi and Khalid al-Mihdar.  http://www.foxnews.com.  See also Rep. Curt Weldon  , Louis Freeh,  Capt. Scott J. Phillpott , Major Erik Kleinsmith, and James D. Smith.



Bio: http://www.c4ads.org/anthony.shaffer





 
 

Capt. Scott J. Phillpott 


      Capt. Scott J. Phillpott, U.S. Navy – Former head of the Able Danger data mining program  that targeted Al Qaeda’s global structure.   Former Commanding Officer of the guided-missile cruiser USS Leyte Gulf. Former Commanding Officer of the frigate USS Estocin. Former Commanding Officer of the coastal patrol ship USS Typhoon.  U.S. Naval Academy graduate.  Awards include the Legion of Merit, Defense Meritorious Service Medal, three
      Meritorious Service Medals, the Joint Service Commendation Medal, two Navy Commendation Medals, and the
      Navy Achievement Medal.  23 years of Navy service.
      
          
Fox News Article 8/23/05: "I  will not discuss this outside of my chain of command. I have briefed the  Department of the Army, the Special Operations Command and the office of  (Undersecretary of Defense for Intelligence) Dr. Cambone as well as the 9/11  Commission. My story has remained consistent. Atta was identified by Able  Danger in January/February 2000."  http://www.foxnews.com



Editor's note: The 9/11 Commission Report asserts that only three of the alleged hijackers were known to U.S. intelligence agencies prior to 9/11; Nawaf al-Hazmi, Salem al-Hazmi, and Khalid al-Mihdar.  There is no mention in the Report that the names and photographs of alleged hijacker Marwan al-Shehhi and alleged ring-leader Mohamed Atta had been identified by the Department of Defense antiterrorist program known as Able Danger more than a year prior to 9/11 and that they were known to be affiliates of al-Qaida. Able Danger also identified Nawaf al-Hazmi and Khalid al-Mihdar.  http://www.foxnews.com.  See also Rep. Curt Weldon  , Louis Freeh, Lt. Col. Anthony Shaffer, Major Erik Kleinsmith, and James D. Smith.



Bio: http://www.bcnavyleague.org  (page 5) 




 
 

Major Erik Kleinsmith


      Major Erik Kleinsmith, U.S. Army – Former Chief of Intelligence, Land Information Warfare Activity (LIWA).  Awarded Meritorious  Service Medal, Army Commendation Medal, Armed Forces Expeditionary Medal,  and the National Defense Service Medal. 14-year Army career.  Currently Project Manager for Intelligence  Analytical Training, Lockheed Martin Company.
        
Testimony before the Senate Judiciary Committee 9/21/05:  "Mr. KLEINSMITH: From March 1999 until February of 2001, I was an active duty
            Army Major and the Chief of Intelligence of the Land Information
            Warfare Activity. ... 		  

                      In December of 1999, we were approached by U.S. Special Operations Command  to support Able Danger. ... In the months that followed, we were able to collect an immense amount
            of data for analysis that allowed us to map Al Qaeda as a worldwide
            threat with a surprisingly significant presence within the
            United States. 		  

                      In approximately April of 2000, from my recollections, our support
            to Able Danger became severely restricted and ultimately shut
            down due to intelligence oversight concerns. ... I, along with one of my analysts,
            Chief Warrant Officer 3 Terri Stephens, were forced to destroy
            all data, charts, and other analytical products that we had
            not already passed on to SOCOM-related Able Danger. ... 		  

                      Chairman Arlen SPECTER: Are you in a position to evaluate the credibility of Captain Phillpott, Colonel Shaffer, Mr. Westphal, Ms.
            Preisser, or Mr. J.D. Smith, as to their credibility when they say
            they saw Mohammed Atta on the chart? 		  

                      Mr. KLEINSMITH: Yes, sir. I believe them implicitly from the time
            that I had worked with all of them, and everyone you had mentioned
            was part and I had contact with during this time. I cannot— 		  

                      Chairman SPECTER: You had contact with all of them?                       

             Mr. KLEINSMITH: Yes, sir. I cannot corroborate them completely
            and say that, yes, they saw it, because I myself do not remember
            seeing either a picture or his name on any charts, but I believe
            them implicitly. When they say they do, I believe them." http://judiciary.senate.gov



Editor's note: The 9/11 Commission Report asserts that only three of the alleged hijackers were known to U.S. intelligence agencies prior to 9/11; Nawaf al-Hazmi, Salem al-Hazmi, and Khalid al-Mihdar.  There is no mention in the Report that the names and photographs of alleged hijacker Marwan al-Shehhi and alleged ring-leader Mohamed Atta had been identified by the Department of Defense antiterrorist program known as Able Danger more than a year prior to 9/11 and that they were known to be affiliates of al-Qaida. Able Danger also identified Nawaf al-Hazmi and Khalid al-Mihdar.  http://www.foxnews.com.  See also Rep. Curt Weldon  , Louis Freeh, Lt. Col. Anthony Shaffer, Capt. Scott J. Phillpott, and James D. Smith.]




 
 

James D. Smith 


      James D. Smith – Former Able Danger Program Manager for  Orion Scientific Systems, a Department of Defense contractor.  Previously at Orion, managed and performed criminal intelligence support activities within the Gulf States Initiative (GSI) Program – a joint federal (U.S. Army and National Guard) and multi-state project (Alabama, Louisiana, Georgia and Mississippi).
        
Testimony before the House Armed Services Committee 2/15/06: Regarding the Able Danger data mining program.                       

            Mr. SMITH: 
            "I have recollection of a visual chart that identified associations of known terrorist Omar Abdul Rahman, within the New York City geographic area and the name of that particular chart escapes me, but it was -- we called the Brooklyn Cell. 		  

                      Mohammed Atta's picture, an association of Rahman, was on the chart. ... Several of these charts addressing multiple topics were retained by me and turned over to Representative Curt Weldon. ... I have direct recollection of the chart because I had a copy up until 2004. ...                       

             At the time, after 9/11 when the pictures were released in newspapers and I did the compare on the chart, when I saw his picture there, I was extremely elated and, to anyone that would listen to me, I showed them the chart that was in my possession.                       

             Rep. Curt WELDON: Mr. Smith, one of the [9/11] commissioners stated publicly after the story ran in the New York Times, that you couldn't have had the photograph, because he didn't have a driver's license. Would you comment on where you got the photograph from?                       

             Mr. SMITH: We were getting the information from Arab sources through Los Angeles. We were able to get a lot of inside Arabic information. ...                       

             Rep.         
            WELDON: Did anyone from the 9/11 Commission staff ever talk to you, Mr. Smith? 		  

                      Mr. 
            SMITH: No, sir. ... 		  

                      Rep. WELDON: How sure are you that it was Mohammed Atta's name and picture?                       

             Mr. 
            SMITH: I'm absolutely certain. I used to look at it every morning.

                      Rep.
            WELDON: You looked at it every morning. So it wasn't a one time deal? 		  

                      Mr. 
            SMITH: No, sir. 		  

                      Rep.
            WELDON: And was that the chart you think that was given to me that I gave to the White House? 		  

                      Mr. 
            SMITH: Yes, sir. It was." http://www.floppingaces.net/wp-content/hearing.pdf



Editor's note: The 9/11 Commission Report asserts that only three of the alleged hijackers were known to U.S. intelligence agencies prior to 9/11; Nawaf al-Hazmi, Salem al-Hazmi, and Khalid al-Mihdar.  There is no mention in the Report that the names and photographs of alleged hijacker Marwan al-Shehhi and alleged ring-leader Mohamed Atta had been identified by the Department of Defense antiterrorist program known as Able Danger more than a year prior to 9/11 and that they were known to be affiliates of al-Qaida. Able Danger also identified Nawaf al-Hazmi and Khalid al-Mihdar.  http://www.foxnews.com.  See also Rep. Curt Weldon  , Louis Freeh, Lt. Col. Anthony Shaffer, Captain Scott J. Phillpott, and Major Erik Kleinsmith.




 
 

Col. David Hunt, MA


      Col. David Hunt, MA, U.S. Army (ret) – Expert in Special Operations, Counter Terrorism and Intelligence  Operations.  Most recently, served as Tactical Advisor in  Bosnia where he facilitated all national intelligence matters for the  Commander in Chief.  Coordinated a $350,000,000 national  security program for the National Security Agency and the Central  Intelligence Agency in 1997.  29-year Army career.  Currently author and media commentator on terrorism and military operations.  Author of On the Hunt: How to Wake Up Washington and Win the War on Terror (2007), They Just Don't Get It: How Washington Is Still Compromising Your Safety--and What You Can Do About It (2006).
        
Interview Fox News 2/15/06: 
Interviewer:  We had Congressman Weldon on a couple days ago.  Able Danger is not going away. 
			  			  


Col. Hunt:  No and it shouldn't.  This is about very, very good guys; six to ten; both military and civilian; Lieutenant Colonels and Navy Captains; O-6's; who did data mining and discovered some very interesting information. Oh, by the way, the program should be running now.  It was completely successful. 
			  

 
			  
			  They went to the government and the government didn't want to talk to them.  And they went to the 9/11 Commission and they didn't want to talk to them.  Now they're testifying again.  And there's some amazing stuff coming out of this.  And with the war on terror, we need the Able Danger's and we don't need the government going after its own agents, which is what they did here. 

 Interviewer:  But it seems there's some debate on Capital Hill regarding Able Danger about whether or not U.S. officials knew about Mohammed Atta before September 11th or if they didn't. 
		    
Col. Hunt:  What's being talked about in the Congressional Record -- It's part of the Congressional Record.  Open.  Open. -- is that the White House was -- Libby was briefed and Hadley were briefed in 2001.   A lot of people knew about Atta.  These guys have it on the record. http://www.mediavsn.com

[Editor's note: Scooter Libby was Chief of Staff to Vice President Dick Cheney 2001 - 2005.  In 2007 he was convicted of four felony counts related to perjury and obstruction of justice.  Stephen Hadley was appointed National Security Advisor on 1/26/05.  He served as Deputy National Security Advisor 2001 - 2004.] 


Editor's note: The 9/11 Commission Report asserts that only three of the alleged hijackers were known to U.S. intelligence agencies prior to 9/11; Nawaf al-Hazmi, Salem al-Hazmi, and Khalid al-Mihdar.  There is no mention in the Report that the names and photographs of alleged hijacker Marwan al-Shehhi and alleged ring-leader Mohamed Atta had been identified by the Department of Defense antiterrorist program known as Able Danger more than a year prior to 9/11 and that they were known to be affiliates of al-Qaida. Able Danger also identified Nawaf al-Hazmi and Khalid al-Mihdar.  http://www.foxnews.com.  See also Rep. Curt Weldon  , Louis Freeh, Capt. Scott J. Phillpott , Major Erik Kleinsmith, and James D. Smith.



Bio: http://premierespeakers.com/david_hunt





 
 
 
 
Col. James R. Uhl, MD
            No photo available 



      Col. James R. Uhl, MD, MC, U.S. Army (ret) – Retired U.S. Army Physician.  Served in several theaters of operations, from Viet Nam through Iraq.  Former Member, Certification in Military Medicine Working Group.  38-year Army career.
      
Statement to this website 9/20/07: "There is a well-organized cover-up of the events of 11  Sep 2001.  The 9/11 Commission was a white-washed  farce.  There is evidence that US Government officials had advance knowledge of and are probably implicated in the events of 9/11. 

 A huge body of physical evidence has been ignored,  suppressed, and ridiculed by the media and by our  Government.  Why did WTC 7 collapse?  It was never hit by an  airplane and was apparently brought down by explosives.  How could Al-Qaida terrorists have had  access and time to plant bombs in a top secret  installation?  Why did the 9/11 Commission fail to  seek the reason for the WTC 7 collapse? 

 The more one  studies the evidence, the more apparent it becomes  that our Nation, our Bill of Rights, and our  Constitution are in grave danger!" 



Editor's note: WTC Building 7 was 610 feet tall, 47 stories.  It would have been the tallest building in 33 states.  Although it was not hit by an airplane, it  completely collapsed into a pile of rubble in less than 7 seconds at 5:20 p.m. on 9/11, seven hours after the collapses of the Twin Towers.  However, no mention of its collapse appears in the 9/11 Commission's "full and complete account of the circumstances surrounding the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks."  Watch the collapse video here.  And six years after 9/11, the Federal government has yet to publish its promised final report that explains the cause of its collapse.



Member:  Scholars for 9/11 Truth and Justice   Association Statement: "Scholars for 9/11 Truth and Justice is a non-partisan organization consisting  of independent researchers and activists engaged  in uncovering the true nature of the September 11, 2001 attacks."




 
 
 
 
Lt. Col. Debra  B. Simmons, MD
        No photo available 



Lt. Col. Debra  B. Simmons, MD, U.S. Army (ret)  – Retired U.S. Army Physician
        
Personal statement: 

 "I am a retired U.S. Army lieutenant colonel. I have only recently  started researching 9/11 and want to help with endeavors to spread the  truth." http://www.meetup.com/members/4780517/



Signatory: War Is Illegal Petition 12/07, which states: 

 "Against a background of escalating ecological crises, and the fact that  large parts of the world´s population are being exposed to extreme  poverty, inhuman working conditions and increasing social tensions, the  annual global military expenditure has risen to more than 1,000 billion  dollars. 

 The military-industrial complex of just a few G8 countries  is responsible for the overwhelming part of this spending, causing  incalculable social and ecological consequences. 

 Unequal  distribution of global resources, increasingly controlled by large  multinational companies, global debt policy and unfair international  trading practices ultimately could not be maintained without military  security. In many countries the military is used to repress critical  opposition. 

 The terror attacks of September 11, 2001 are increasingly used to  justify systematic surveillance and the dismantling of constitutional  rights.  [Bold added for emphasis by Editor of this website.]  Even European countries have helped to establish Guantanomo-like secret  prisons, where torture in all probability takes place. 

 Iraq was attacked based on falsified evidence causing the death of  hundreds of thousands of people, widespread destruction,  destabilization and contamination with cancer-causing depleted uranium  munitions. 

 Now plans to attack Iran and the possibility of a new World War have  been made public, meeting resistance even from moderate elements within  the military due to the unforeseeable consequences. 

 Faced with the choice between a war, that according to some western  leaders, will last for many years or a possible peaceful transformation  we support the following demands: ... 

 International investigation of the September 11, 2001 terror attacks.  They are used as the central justification for the "War on Terror", but  well documented evidence shows that the official explanation of 9/11  cannot be correct.  International personalities in science, politics,  and culture, including high-ranking military veterans, have called for  a new investigation." [Bold added for emphasis by Editor of this website.]  The full text of the petition is available at http://www.war-is-illegal.org




 
 
 
 
Lt. Col. David Gapp
        No photo available 


      Lt. Col. David Gapp, U.S. Air Force (ret) – Retired Pilot and Qualified Aircraft Accident Investigator.  Served as President, Aircraft Accident Board. Military aircraft flown:
      McDonnell Douglas F-4 Phantom, Cessna T-37 Dragonfly "Tweet", Northrup T-38 Talon.  3,000+ total hours flown.  31  years of U.S. Air Force service.  One year as commercial pilot for Continental Airlines.  Commercial aircraft flown: ATR-42.
      
Member:  Pilots for 9/11 Truth  Association Statement: "Pilots for 9/11 Truth is an  organization of aviation professionals and pilots throughout the globe  that have gathered together for one purpose. We are committed to seeking  the truth surrounding the events of the 11th of September 2001. Our  main focus concentrates on the four flights, maneuvers performed and  the reported pilots. We do not offer theory or point blame. However, we  are focused on determining the truth of that fateful day since the  United States Government doesn't seem to be very forthcoming with  answers."




 
 
 
 
Commander Dennis Henry, 
        BS CE, PE
No photo available 


Commander Dennis Henry, U.S. Navy Reserve (ret), BS CE, PE – Retired from U.S. Navy Reserve, Civil Engineering Corps after 20 years of service.  Retired Licensed Professional Engineer, State of Missouri.  34 years of service as a City Engineer, designing bridges, roadways, storm, sanitary sewers, and traffic signals.
      
Statement in support of Architects and Engineers petition:  
          "Being a civil engineer and understanding the laws of physics, I know  that a building cannot fall at free fall speed without the floors  already falling also giving no resistance.  I wish our Congressmen were  as smart, and also showed some backbone and got a truly independent  investigation going.  Also, this 911 truth movement has shown to me that  our press is as every bit controlled and spits out as much propaganda  as I thought Pravda did for the old Soviet Union.  My eyes have been  awakened to many things, and I have come to learn that we do not live  in as free a country as I thought we did, and with the passage of the  Patriot Act, the Military Commissions Act, it has become even less so."  http://www.ae911truth.org



Signatory: Petition requesting a reinvestigation of 9/11, signed by more than 1,500 Architects and Engineers: 

 "On Behalf of the People of the United States of America, the     undersigned Architects and Engineers for 9/11 Truth and     affiliates  hereby petition for, and demand, a truly     independent investigation with subpoena power in order to     uncover the full truth surrounding the events of 9/11/01 -     specifically the collapse of the World Trade Center Towers and     Building 7.  We believe that there is sufficient doubt about     the official story and therefore that the 9/11 investigation     must be re-opened and must include a full inquiry into the     possible use of explosives that may have been the actual cause     behind the destruction of the World Trade Center Towers and     WTC Building 7." http://www.ae911truth.org/joinus.php



Editor's note: WTC Building 7 was 610 feet tall, 47 stories.  It would have been the tallest building in 33 states.  Although it was not hit by an airplane, it  completely collapsed into a pile of rubble in less than 7 seconds at 5:20 p.m. on 9/11, seven hours after the collapses of the Twin Towers.  However, no mention of its collapse appears in the 9/11 Commission's "full and complete account of the circumstances surrounding the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks."  Watch the collapse video here.  And six years after 9/11, the Federal government has yet to publish its promised final report that explains the cause of its collapse.




 
 
 
 
Col. Michael Harley
        No photo available 


      Col. Michael Harley, U.S. Air Force (ret) – Retired Chief of Standardization of a Strategic Air Command Wing equipped with Boeing B-52 bombers, Boeing RC-135 reconnaissance aircraft
      and Boeing KC-135 Stratotankers.  Command pilot and U.S. Air Force accident investigator.  6,000+ total hours flown.  Aircraft flown:
      Boeing B-52 Stratofortress bomber, Lockheed C130A, B, E,& prototype H Hercules, K-135 Stratotanker, DeHavilland U6 Beaver, Lockheed T-33 Shooting Star, Cessna T-37 Dragonfly "Tweet", Northrup T-38 Talon, North American T-39 Sabreliner, Bell UH-1 Iroquois "Huey" Helicopter.  26 years commissioned officer and 34 total years of U.S. Air Force service.  Former Instructor, Accident Investigation, Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University.  Management analyst and IG.  Simulator instructor.  Instructor Pilot and Standardization Evaluation Pilot.  Civilian aircraft flown: Cessna 177, Beechcraft Twin Bonanza, Piper Cherokee-6.  Newspaper columnist and freelance writer.
      
Member:  Pilots for 9/11 Truth  Association Statement: "Pilots for 9/11 Truth is an  organization of aviation professionals and pilots throughout the globe  that have gathered together for one purpose. We are committed to seeking  the truth surrounding the events of the 11th of September 2001. Our  main focus concentrates on the four flights, maneuvers performed and  the reported pilots. We do not offer theory or point blame. However, we  are focused on determining the truth of that fateful day since the  United States Government doesn't seem to be very forthcoming with  answers."




 
 
Col. Thomas W. Mcguire, Jr. 
        No photo available 


Col. Thomas W. Mcguire, Jr., U.S. Air Force (ret) – Retired U.S. Air Force Command Fighter Pilot. Flew 100 missions over North Vietnam in McDonnell Douglas F-4C Phantoms, leading 31 missions over Hanoi area known as Route Pack Six. Aircraft flown: Lockheed F-80 (P-80) Shooting Star, Republic F-84G & F Thunderjet, F-105 Thunderchief; North American F-100 Super Sabre, T-39 Sabreliner; McDonnell F-101 Voodoo; McDonnell Douglas F-4 Phantom. 4,000+ total hours flown. 27 years U.S. Air Force service.
      
Member:  Pilots for 9/11 Truth  Association Statement: "Pilots for 9/11 Truth is an  organization of aviation professionals and pilots throughout the globe  that have gathered together for one purpose. We are committed to seeking  the truth surrounding the events of the 11th of September 2001. Our  main focus concentrates on the four flights, maneuvers performed and  the reported pilots. We do not offer theory or point blame. However, we  are focused on determining the truth of that fateful day since the  United States Government doesn't seem to be very forthcoming with  answers."




 
 
 
 
Col. Norman M. Bradley, BA,
        MS Ed
        No photo available 



Col. Norman M. Bradley, BA, MS Ed, U.S. Army (ret) – Professional educator.
      
Statement in support of Architects and Engineers petition: 

 "Read the book "102 minutes" as well as, "The 9/11 Commission Report". I   have also read numerous blogs that, if half were true, would be deeply   unsettling as to the circumstances that served as a prelude to the   catastrophe. In my opinion there are many unresolved issues that need   further exploration."  http://www.ae911truth.org 



Signatory: Petition requesting a reinvestigation of 9/11, signed by more than 1,500 Architects and Engineers: 

 "On Behalf of the People of the United States of America, the     undersigned Architects and Engineers for 9/11 Truth and     affiliates  hereby petition for, and demand, a truly     independent investigation with subpoena power in order to     uncover the full truth surrounding the events of 9/11/01 -     specifically the collapse of the World Trade Center Towers and     Building 7.  We believe that there is sufficient doubt about     the official story and therefore that the 9/11 investigation     must be re-opened and must include a full inquiry into the     possible use of explosives that may have been the actual cause     behind the destruction of the World Trade Center Towers and     WTC Building 7." http://www.ae911truth.org/joinus.php



Editor's note: WTC Building 7 was 610 feet tall, 47 stories.  It would have been the tallest building in 33 states.  Although it was not hit by an airplane, it  completely collapsed into a pile of rubble in less than 7 seconds at 5:20 p.m. on 9/11, seven hours after the collapses of the Twin Towers.  However, no mention of its collapse appears in the 9/11 Commission's "full and complete account of the circumstances surrounding the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks."  Watch the collapse video here.   Finally, on 11/20/08, more than seven years after 9/11, the Federal government published its final report on the collapse of WTC 7, which "found that the fires on multiple floors in WTC 7, which were uncontrolled but otherwise similar to fires experienced in other tall buildings, caused an extraordinary event." Despite the absence of any visible fire at the time of collapse, the government report alleges WTC Building 7 is the first and only steel-framed high-rise building in the history of mankind to collapse simply as the result of a fire.




 
 
 
 
Col. Robert Reid
        No photo available 




Col. Robert Reid, U.S. Air Force (ret) – Retired pilot and air traffic   controller

Member: Veterans For 9/11 Truth  Association statement: 

 "Our mission, simply                       put, is to save the United States of America and to defend                       it from all enemies, foreign and domestic. To that end, we                       seek to restore true values, integrity, honesty, and leadership                       in government at the local, state and national level. We are                       opposed to tyranny and corruption. We seek to move this Nation                       from a state of perpetual warfare to a state of prolonged                       peace and prosperity. 

 In pursuit of our                       mission we have initially chosen to present evidence exposing                       the deception and lies that many in the military/intelligence/industrial/media                       establishment have been telling Americans and the world since                       September 11, 2001 concerning the events of that tragic day.                       Our mission includes seeking, discovering, and presenting                       evidence revealing the truth about the events of 9/11."  http://www.v911t.org




 
 
 
 
Capt. Stephen M. Gann, PhD
        No photo available 



Capt. Stephen M. Gann, PhD, U.S. Navy Reserve (ret) – Analytical Chemist. Former Licensed Professional Engineer with 18 years experience as a nuclear   chemist. Currently an Assistant Professor of Chemistry, Arkansas Tech   University.
      
Statement in support of Architects and Engineers petition: 

 "Having witnessed the collapse of the second tower on television, I   noticed brilliant white flashes on the lower floors immediately before   collapse. Why was that? Why was that film clip never seen on TV again? 

 During clean up at site zero, there was radioactivity detected,   radionuclides that could only be present from a fission event. But due   to the general public lack of understanding of nuclear "stuff", this was   passed off as a result of the intense heat of the fire, a   scientifically impossible scenario. I would, as a nuclear chemist, like   for this particular anomaly to be properly explained."  http://www.ae911truth.org 



Signatory: Petition requesting a reinvestigation of 9/11, signed by more than 1,500 Architects and Engineers: 

 "On Behalf of the People of the United States of America, the     undersigned Architects and Engineers for 9/11 Truth and     affiliates  hereby petition for, and demand, a truly     independent investigation with subpoena power in order to     uncover the full truth surrounding the events of 9/11/01 -     specifically the collapse of the World Trade Center Towers and     Building 7.  We believe that there is sufficient doubt about     the official story and therefore that the 9/11 investigation     must be re-opened and must include a full inquiry into the     possible use of explosives that may have been the actual cause     behind the destruction of the World Trade Center Towers and     WTC Building 7." http://www.ae911truth.org/joinus.php



Editor's note: WTC Building 7 was 610 feet tall, 47 stories.  It would have been the tallest building in 33 states.  Although it was not hit by an airplane, it  completely collapsed into a pile of rubble in less than 7 seconds at 5:20 p.m. on 9/11, seven hours after the collapses of the Twin Towers.  However, no mention of its collapse appears in the 9/11 Commission's "full and complete account of the circumstances surrounding the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks."  Watch the collapse video here.   Finally, on 11/20/08, more than seven years after 9/11, the Federal government published its final report on the collapse of WTC 7, which "found that the fires on multiple floors in WTC 7, which were uncontrolled but otherwise similar to fires experienced in other tall buildings, caused an extraordinary event." Despite the absence of any visible fire at the time of collapse, the government report alleges WTC Building 7 is the first and only steel-framed high-rise building in the history of mankind to collapse simply as the result of a fire.




 
 
Lt. Col. Stephen L. Butler, EdD 
        No photo available 


      Lt. Col. Stephen L. Butler, EdD, U.S.  Air Force (ret) – Former Vice  Chancellor for Student Affairs at the Defense Language Institute.  Served  as a B-52 Radar Navigator in the Gulf War.  24-year Air Force career.
      
      
Article 6/4/02: "Of course Bush knew about the impending attacks  on America.  He did nothing to warn the American people because he needed this war on  terrorism."  http://www.truthout.org/docs_02/06.06E.butler.bush.htm




 
 
 
 
Major Jon I. Fox
        No photo available 


      Major Jon I. Fox, U.S. Marine Corps   –           Former Marine Corps fighter pilot, including interceptor pilot.  Retired commercial airline pilot, Continental Airlines.  Aircraft flown: Boeing 727, McDonnell Douglas DC-10, LearJet.  35-year commercial aviation career. 

Statement to this website 6/3/08:  

 "Recent research proves that explosives were used at the World Trade Center.  Flight paths and maneuvers of the aircraft involved at the Pentagon and Shanksville do not match NTSB released flight data recordings.  Shouldn't there be a criminal investigation before more lives and trillions of dollars are wasted?"

 

Statement in support of Architects and Engineers petition:  

 "On hearing the military (NORAD/NEAD) excuses for no intercepts on  9/11/2001, I knew from personal experience that they were lying.  I then  began re-checking other evidence and found mostly more lies from the  "official spokesmen".  Jet fuel fires at atmospheric pressure do not get  hot enough to weaken steel. Structures do not collapse through  themselves in free fall time with only gravity as the powering force."  http://www.ae911truth.org

 

Signatory: Petition requesting a reinvestigation of 9/11, signed by more than 1,500 Architects and Engineers: 

  "On Behalf of the People of the United States of America, the     undersigned Architects and Engineers for 9/11 Truth and     affiliates  hereby petition for, and demand, a truly     independent investigation with subpoena power in order to     uncover the full truth surrounding the events of 9/11/01 -     specifically the collapse of the World Trade Center Towers and     Building 7.  We believe that there is sufficient doubt about     the official story and therefore that the 9/11 investigation     must be re-opened and must include a full inquiry into the     possible use of explosives that may have been the actual cause     behind the destruction of the World Trade Center Towers and     WTC Building 7." http://www.ae911truth.org/joinus.php



Editor's note: WTC Building 7 was 610 feet tall, 47 stories.  It would have been the tallest building in 33 states.  Although it was not hit by an airplane, it  completely collapsed into a pile of rubble in less than 7 seconds at 5:20 p.m. on 9/11, seven hours after the collapses of the Twin Towers.  However, no mention of its collapse appears in the 9/11 Commission's "full and complete account of the circumstances surrounding the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks."  Watch the collapse video here.  And six years after 9/11, the Federal government has yet to publish its promised final report that explains the cause of its collapse.




 
 
 
 
Major Albert M. Meyer, MHA 
        No photo available 


      Major Albert M. Meyer, MHA, U.S. Air Force (ret)  – 23 years Air Force active service  with duty stations in the continental   U.S.   and also 3 years in Europe and 1 year in Vietnam.        Masters in Hospital Administration.        

Statement in support of Architects and Engineers petition:  

 "I have always thought that there was something more to the collapse of   these buildings other than aircraft."  http://www.ae911truth.org

 

Signatory: Petition requesting a reinvestigation of 9/11, signed by more than 1,500 Architects and Engineers: 

  "On Behalf of the People of the United States of America, the     undersigned Architects and Engineers for 9/11 Truth and     affiliates  hereby petition for, and demand, a truly     independent investigation with subpoena power in order to     uncover the full truth surrounding the events of 9/11/01 -     specifically the collapse of the World Trade Center Towers and     Building 7.  We believe that there is sufficient doubt about     the official story and therefore that the 9/11 investigation     must be re-opened and must include a full inquiry into the     possible use of explosives that may have been the actual cause     behind the destruction of the World Trade Center Towers and     WTC Building 7." http://www.ae911truth.org/joinus.php



Editor's note: WTC Building 7 was 610 feet tall, 47 stories.  It would have been the tallest building in 33 states.  Although it was not hit by an airplane, it  completely collapsed into a pile of rubble in less than 7 seconds at 5:20 p.m. on 9/11, seven hours after the collapses of the Twin Towers.  However, no mention of its collapse appears in the 9/11 Commission's "full and complete account of the circumstances surrounding the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks."  Watch the collapse video here.  And six years after 9/11, the Federal government has yet to publish its promised final report that explains the cause of its collapse.




 
 
 
 
Lt. Cdr. Bernard J. Smith 
        No photo available 


      Lt. Cdr. Bernard J. Smith, U.S. Nay (ret)   –           Retired carrier Naval Aviator and former aircraft accident investigator.

Statement in support of Architects and Engineers petition:  

 "From my several years experience as an aircraft accident investigator   for the U.S.Navy, I am appalled at the basic principles of investigation   being ignored; ie, premature destruction of evidence, reliable eye   witness accounts ignored, etc. To allow the official version to be the   final word in this planned event, as is evident from the AE9/11   investigation, would be a major disservice to the victims and the   nation."  http://www.ae911truth.org

 

Signatory: Petition requesting a reinvestigation of 9/11, signed by more than 1,500 Architects and Engineers: 

  "On Behalf of the People of the United States of America, the     undersigned Architects and Engineers for 9/11 Truth and     affiliates  hereby petition for, and demand, a truly     independent investigation with subpoena power in order to     uncover the full truth surrounding the events of 9/11/01 -     specifically the collapse of the World Trade Center Towers and     Building 7.  We believe that there is sufficient doubt about     the official story and therefore that the 9/11 investigation     must be re-opened and must include a full inquiry into the     possible use of explosives that may have been the actual cause     behind the destruction of the World Trade Center Towers and     WTC Building 7." http://www.ae911truth.org/joinus.php



Editor's note: WTC Building 7 was 610 feet tall, 47 stories.  It would have been the tallest building in 33 states.  Although it was not hit by an airplane, it  completely collapsed into a pile of rubble in less than 7 seconds at 5:20 p.m. on 9/11, seven hours after the collapses of the Twin Towers.  However, no mention of its collapse appears in the 9/11 Commission's "full and complete account of the circumstances surrounding the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks."  Watch the collapse video here.  And six years after 9/11, the Federal government has yet to publish its promised final report that explains the cause of its collapse.




 
 
 
 
Maj. George M. Kesselring
        No photo available 


      Maj. George M. Kesselring, U.S. Air Force (ret)   – Retired Pilot. 323rd Bomb Squadron, 91st Bomb Group, 8th Air Force. Aircraft flown: Boeing B17G bomber. World War II veteran. 22 year Air Force career. 

Signatory: War Is Illegal Petition 12/07, which states: 

 "Against a background of escalating ecological crises, and the fact that  large parts of the world´s population are being exposed to extreme  poverty, inhuman working conditions and increasing social tensions, the  annual global military expenditure has risen to more than 1,000 billion  dollars. 

 The military-industrial complex of just a few G8 countries  is responsible for the overwhelming part of this spending, causing  incalculable social and ecological consequences. 

 Unequal  distribution of global resources, increasingly controlled by large  multinational companies, global debt policy and unfair international  trading practices ultimately could not be maintained without military  security. In many countries the military is used to repress critical  opposition. 

 The terror attacks of September 11, 2001 are increasingly used to  justify systematic surveillance and the dismantling of constitutional  rights.  [Bold added for emphasis by Editor of this website.]  Even European countries have helped to establish Guantanomo-like secret  prisons, where torture in all probability takes place. 

 Iraq was attacked based on falsified evidence causing the death of  hundreds of thousands of people, widespread destruction,  destabilization and contamination with cancer-causing depleted uranium  munitions. 

 Now plans to attack Iran and the possibility of a new World War have  been made public, meeting resistance even from moderate elements within  the military due to the unforeseeable consequences. 

 Faced with the choice between a war, that according to some western  leaders, will last for many years or a possible peaceful transformation  we support the following demands: ... 

 International investigation of the September 11, 2001 terror attacks.  They are used as the central justification for the "War on Terror", but  well documented evidence shows that the official explanation of 9/11  cannot be correct.  International personalities in science, politics,  and culture, including high-ranking military veterans, have called for  a new investigation." [Bold added for emphasis by Editor of this website.]  The full text of the petition is available at http://www.war-is-illegal.org




 
 
 
 
Major Jon  Bjornson, MD
        No photo available


Major Jon  Bjornson, MD  – Former Major, U.S. Army Medical  Corps, Vietnam Veteran, 7 years of service.
        Retired Psychiatrist.  Former Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, Jefferson Medical College.
        
Signatory of Petition to Release Information Pertaining to 9/11 10/5/06: 

 "We, the undersigned, demand the immediate declassification and release  of:
            
 all transcripts and documents relating to the July 10, 2001 meeting  that took place between former CIA Director George Tenet and then  National Security Advisor, Condoleezza Rice. It has been alleged that  this urgent and out-of-the-ordinary meeting was called to discuss the  increasingly dire warnings of an imminent al Qaeda attack within the  U.S. ... 
the redacted 28 pages of the Joint Inquiry Into The Terrorist Attacks of September 11, 2001 (JICI), and 
the CIA Inspector General’s report, CIA Accountability With Respect To The 9/11 Attacks




The disastrous nature of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks  warrant the release of all of this information so that the American  public may learn what its government did or did not do to protect them.  Had this nation been properly warned of the looming and imminent  terrorist threat, life saving choices could have been made that day." http://www.petitiononline.com/july10





 
 
 
 
Major Reginald Shinn 
        No photo available


Major Reginald Shinn, U.S. Air Force (ret)  – Retired officer. Served as Bombardier - Navigator in Boeing B-25's, 41st Bombardment Group, Seventh Air Force, World War II.  Awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross.
        
Narrator  Let Me Know When You See Fire video 3/4/10:


		  
		  The 10-minute documentary plays the final 8 minutes of radio communication of firefighters in the World Trade Center 2 building (South Tower) prior to its demolition.
		   		  


		  

            Major Shinn's concluding narration:
            "The South Tower collapsed suddenly at 9:59 am.  By the evidence of these emergency communications, it is apparent that the supposed jet fuel office fires said to have destroyed the 110 stories of structural steel was somehow insufficient to avert these rescue operations. 
					  


		  

            Something doesn't add up. Either there were emergency teams operating in the building or there was a tremendous inferno of sustained temperature as required to obliterate the strength of steel.
					  

		  

            The two possibilities are mutually exclusive.  If you can understand the significance of this elementary evidence, it is now your responsibility to get involved. 
					  
		  

            Become active in the pursuit of justice.
					  
		  

            Join our expanding world wide movement to call for a new investigation.
http://www.youtube.com



 
U.S. GOVERNMENT SCIENTISTS AND RESEARCHERS 



 
 

 David L. Griscom, PhD 


      David L. Griscom, PhD  – Research physicist, retired  in 2001 from Naval Research Laboratory (NRL) in Washington, DC, after 33  years service.   Fellow of the American Physical  Society.  Fulbright-García Robles Fellow at Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México in Mexico City (1997).  Visiting professorships of research at the  Universities of Paris and Saint-Etienne,   France, and  Tokyo Institute of Technology (2000 - 2003).  Adjunct Professor of Materials Science and  Engineering, University of Arizona  (2004 - 2005).  Winner of the 1993 N. F.  Mott Award sponsored by the Journal of Non-Crystalline Solids, the 1995 Otto  Schott Award offered by the Carl-Zeiss-Stiftung (Germany),  a 1996 Outstanding Graduate School Alumnus Award at Brown University,  and the 1997 Sigma Xi Pure Science Award at NRL. Principal author of 109 of his 185 published works, a body of work which is highly cited by his peers.  Officially credited with largest number of papers (5)  by any author on list of 100 most cited articles  authored at NRL between 1973 and 1988.
      
Personal blog 1/5/07: "David Ray Griffin has web-published a splendid, highly footnoted account of The Destruction of the World Trade Center: Why the Official Account Cannot Be True:  This scholarly work, rich in eyewitness accounts, includes 11 separate pieces of evidence that the World  Trade  Center towers 1, 2 [each 1300+ feet tall, 110 stories], and 7 were brought down by explosives.   [Editor's note: WTC Building 7 was 610 feet tall, 47 stories.  It would have been the tallest building in 33 states.  Although it was not hit by an airplane, it  completely collapsed into a pile of rubble in less than 7 seconds at 5:20 p.m. on 9/11, seven hours after the collapses of the Twin Towers.  However, no mention of its collapse appears in the 9/11 Commission's "full and complete account of the circumstances surrounding the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks."  Watch the collapse video here.  And six years after 9/11, the Federal government has yet to publish its promised final report that explains the cause of its collapse.]

 ... I implore my fellow physicists and engineers who may have the time, expertise, and (ideally) supercomputer access to get to work on the physics of the World Trade Center collapses and publish their findings in refereed journals like, say, the Journal of Applied Physics. 

The issue of knowing who was really behind the  9/11 attacks is of paramount importance to the future of our country, because the "official" assumption that it was the  work of 19 Arab amateurs (1) does not match the available facts and (2)  has led directly to the deplorable Patriot Act, the illegal Iraq war,  NSA spying on ordinary Americans, repudiation of the Geneva  Conventions, and the repeal of habeas corpus (a fundamental point of  law that has been with us since the signing of the Magna Carta in 1215). 

 Surely  these Orwellian consequences of public ignorance constitute more than  sufficient motivation for any patriotic American physicist or engineer  to join the search for 9/11 Truth!" http://impactglassman



Member:  Scholars for 9/11 Truth and Justice   Association Statement: "Scholars for 9/11 Truth and Justice is a non-partisan organization consisting  of independent researchers and activists engaged  in uncovering the true nature of the September 11, 2001 attacks."



 Bio: http://www.impactglassresearchinternational.com/index.html



 
 

Dwain Deets, MS Eng 

      Dwain Deets, MS Physics, MS Eng  – Former Director, Aerospace Projects, NASA Dryden Flight Research  Center. 
        Before this appointment, he served as Director,  Research Engineering Division at Dryden.  Recipient of the NASA Exceptional Service Award and the Presidential  Meritorious Rank Award in the Senior Executive Service (1988).  Selected presenter of the Wright Brothers Lectureship in Aeronautics, a distinguished  speaking engagement sponsored by the American Institute of Aeronautics  and Astronautics (AIAA) (1986).  Included in "Who's Who in  Science and Engineering" 1993 - 2000.  Former Chairman of the Aerospace Control and Guidance  Systems Committee of the Society of Automotive Engineers.  Former Member, AIAA Committee on Society and Aerospace  Technology.  37 year NASA career.

Statement in support of Architects and Engineers petition:
          "The many visual images (massive structural members being hurled  horizontally, huge pyroclastic clouds, etc.) leave no doubt in my mind  explosives were involved [in the destruction of the World Trade Center]."  http://www.ae911truth.org

Signatory: Petition requesting a reinvestigation of 9/11, signed by more than 1,500 Architects and Engineers:

 "On Behalf of the People of the United States of America, the     undersigned Architects and Engineers for 9/11 Truth and     affiliates  hereby petition for, and demand, a truly     independent investigation with subpoena power in order to     uncover the full truth surrounding the events of 9/11/01 -     specifically the collapse of the World Trade Center Towers and     Building 7.  We believe that there is sufficient doubt about     the official story and therefore that the 9/11 investigation     must be re-opened and must include a full inquiry into the     possible use of explosives that may have been the actual cause     behind the destruction of the World Trade Center Towers and     WTC Building 7." http://www.ae911truth.org/joinus.php

Editor's note: WTC Building 7 was 610 feet tall, 47 stories.  It would have been the tallest building in 33 states.  Although it was not hit by an airplane, it  completely collapsed into a pile of rubble in less than 7 seconds at 5:20 p.m. on 9/11, seven hours after the collapses of the Twin Towers.  However, no mention of its collapse appears in the 9/11 Commission's "full and complete account of the circumstances surrounding the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks."  Watch the collapse video here.  And six years after 9/11, the Federal government has yet to publish its promised final report that explains the cause of its collapse.

Bio: http://www.dfrc.nasa.gov




 
 
 
 
Larry L. Erickson, MS, PhD
        No photo available 


Larry L. Erickson, BS Aeronautical Eng, MS Aeronautical Eng, PhD Eng Mechanics   – Retired NASA Aerospace Engineer and Research Scientist.  Conducted research in the fields of structural dynamics, aerodynamics, aeroelasticity and flutter.  Recipient of NASA's Aerodynamics Division Researcher-of-the-Year Award.  33-year NASA career.  Member, American Institute of Aeronautics & Astronautics.  Instructor, Physics and Aerospace Engineering, California Polytechnic State University, San Luis Obispo 1998 - present.  Author and co-author of several scientific papers on aerodynamic analysis.  Contributing author to Applied Computational Aerodynamics (1990).
      
Statement in support of Architects and Engineers petition:
          "Serious technical investigations by experts seem to be lacking from the official explanations."  http://www.ae911truth.org

Signatory: Petition requesting a reinvestigation of 9/11, signed by more than 1,500 Architects and Engineers: 

  "On Behalf of the People of the United States of America, the     undersigned Architects and Engineers for 9/11 Truth and     affiliates  hereby petition for, and demand, a truly     independent investigation with subpoena power in order to     uncover the full truth surrounding the events of 9/11/01 -     specifically the collapse of the World Trade Center Towers and     Building 7.  We believe that there is sufficient doubt about     the official story and therefore that the 9/11 investigation     must be re-opened and must include a full inquiry into the     possible use of explosives that may have been the actual cause     behind the destruction of the World Trade Center Towers and     WTC Building 7." http://www.ae911truth.org/joinus.php



Editor's note: WTC Building 7 was 610 feet tall, 47 stories.  It would have been the tallest building in 33 states.  Although it was not hit by an airplane, it  completely collapsed into a pile of rubble in less than 7 seconds at 5:20 p.m. on 9/11, seven hours after the collapses of the Twin Towers.  However, no mention of its collapse appears in the 9/11 Commission's "full and complete account of the circumstances surrounding the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks."  Watch the collapse video here.  And six years after 9/11, the Federal government has yet to publish its promised final report that explains the cause of its collapse.




 
 
 
 
Lon J. Waters, PhD
        No photo available 


      Lon J. Waters, PhD Mathematics  – Former staff member of the Maui High Performance Computing Center, a U.S. Department of Defense funded high performance computing and research facility.  Former staff member of Sandia National Laboratories, a major research facility of the National Nuclear Security Administration, U.S. Department of Energy.  Member Advisory Editorial Board, Journal of 9/11 Studies. 
        
Signatory of Petition of Solidarity to the Attorney General of New York for a new independent grand jury investigation of 9/11 11/19/04: "We the undersigned:  a) think that there is ample evidence and probable cause to believe  that many grave and still unresolved crimes were committed by US  officials prior to, during and after the events of 9/11;  b) observe that most of these apparent crimes, including but not  limited to abetment of mass murder, criminal negligence, insider  trading, and obstruction of justice fall well within the jurisdiction of New York's top law enforcement officials ..." http://www.justicefor911.org



Signatory: Petition requesting a reinvestigation of 9/11, signed by more than 1,500 Architects and Engineers: 

 "On Behalf of the People of the United States of America, the     undersigned Architects and Engineers for 9/11 Truth and     affiliates  hereby petition for, and demand, a truly     independent investigation with subpoena power in order to     uncover the full truth surrounding the events of 9/11/01 -     specifically the collapse of the World Trade Center Towers and     Building 7.  We believe that there is sufficient doubt about     the official story and therefore that the 9/11 investigation     must be re-opened and must include a full inquiry into the     possible use of explosives that may have been the actual cause     behind the destruction of the World Trade Center Towers and     WTC Building 7." http://www.ae911truth.org/joinus.php



Editor's note: WTC Building 7 was 610 feet tall, 47 stories.  It would have been the tallest building in 33 states.  Although it was not hit by an airplane, it  completely collapsed into a pile of rubble in less than 7 seconds at 5:20 p.m. on 9/11, seven hours after the collapses of the Twin Towers.  However, no mention of its collapse appears in the 9/11 Commission's "full and complete account of the circumstances surrounding the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks."  Watch the collapse video here.  And six years after 9/11, the Federal government has yet to publish its promised final report that explains the cause of its collapse.


Member:  Scholars for 9/11 Truth and Justice   Association Statement: "Scholars for 9/11 Truth and Justice is a non-partisan organization consisting  of independent researchers and activists engaged  in uncovering the true nature of the September 11, 2001 attacks."




 
 
 
 
Robert H. Waser, BS ME, 
MS ME, PE
        No photo available 


      Robert H. Waser, BS ME, MS ME, PE  – Retired Research and Development Engineer, U.S. Naval Ordinance Lab. 33 year career, of which 15 years were as Chief Engineer  of the laboratory's wind tunnel complex, which  includes the world's largest hypervelocity wind tunnel.  Retired Licensed Professional Engineer, State of Maryland.
      
Statement in support of Architects and Engineers petition: 
          "The 'official' 9/11 story seems to violate laws of physics and  engineering analysis, specifically with respect to the collapse speed  and the temperatures of molten iron.  The only explanation that seems to  be in accordance with all observations is controlled demolition."  http://www.ae911truth.org


Signatory: Petition requesting a reinvestigation of 9/11, signed by more than 1,500 Architects and Engineers: 

 "On Behalf of the People of the United States of America, the     undersigned Architects and Engineers for 9/11 Truth and     affiliates  hereby petition for, and demand, a truly     independent investigation with subpoena power in order to     uncover the full truth surrounding the events of 9/11/01 -     specifically the collapse of the World Trade Center Towers and     Building 7.  We believe that there is sufficient doubt about     the official story and therefore that the 9/11 investigation     must be re-opened and must include a full inquiry into the     possible use of explosives that may have been the actual cause     behind the destruction of the World Trade Center Towers and     WTC Building 7." http://www.ae911truth.org/joinus.php



Editor's note: WTC Building 7 was 610 feet tall, 47 stories.  It would have been the tallest building in 33 states.  Although it was not hit by an airplane, it  completely collapsed into a pile of rubble in less than 7 seconds at 5:20 p.m. on 9/11, seven hours after the collapses of the Twin Towers.  However, no mention of its collapse appears in the 9/11 Commission's "full and complete account of the circumstances surrounding the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks."  Watch the collapse video here.  And six years after 9/11, the Federal government has yet to publish its promised final report that explains the cause of its collapse.




 
 
 
 
George M. Campbell, PhD
        No photo available 


George M. Campbell, PhD   – Retired Research Scientist, Los Alamos National Laboratory, specializing in plutonium chemistry 1963 - 1991. Author and co-author of several journal articles on plutonium chemistry.
      
Statement in support of Architects and Engineers petition:
          "Pictures of collapse are not consistent with a burning building. I   believe that someone is covering up the facts for some reason."  http://www.ae911truth.org



Signatory: Petition requesting a reinvestigation of 9/11, signed by more than 1,500 Architects and Engineers: 

  "On Behalf of the People of the United States of America, the     undersigned Architects and Engineers for 9/11 Truth and     affiliates  hereby petition for, and demand, a truly     independent investigation with subpoena power in order to     uncover the full truth surrounding the events of 9/11/01 -     specifically the collapse of the World Trade Center Towers and     Building 7.  We believe that there is sufficient doubt about     the official story and therefore that the 9/11 investigation     must be re-opened and must include a full inquiry into the     possible use of explosives that may have been the actual cause     behind the destruction of the World Trade Center Towers and     WTC Building 7." http://www.ae911truth.org/joinus.php



Editor's note: WTC Building 7 was 610 feet tall, 47 stories.  It would have been the tallest building in 33 states.  Although it was not hit by an airplane, it  completely collapsed into a pile of rubble in less than 7 seconds at 5:20 p.m. on 9/11, seven hours after the collapses of the Twin Towers.  However, no mention of its collapse appears in the 9/11 Commission's "full and complete account of the circumstances surrounding the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks."  Watch the collapse video here.  And six years after 9/11, the Federal government has yet to publish its promised final report that explains the cause of its collapse.




U.S. INTELLIGENCE SERVICES AND LAW ENFORCEMENT 



 
 

Raymond L. McGovern 


      Raymond L. McGovern – 27-year CIA veteran. Former Chairman, National Intelligence  Estimates (NIE), the consensus reports of all U.S. intelligence agencies. According to the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, NIE's "are the Intelligence Community’s  most authoritative written judgments on national security issues." Responsible for preparing and presenting the President’ Daily Brief (PDB) to Presidents Ronald Reagan and George H.W. Bush and for providing intelligence briefing to their Vice Presidents, Secretaries of State, the  Joint Chiefs of Staff,   and many other senior government officials.  Upon retirement in 1990,   McGovern was awarded  the CIA’s Intelligence Commendation Medallion and   received a letter of  appreciation from then-President George H. W.   Bush. Former U.S. Army Intelligence Officer.
      
Endorsement of 9/11 and American Empire (Vol I) – Intellectuals Speak Out:




"It has long been clear that the Bush-Cheney administration  cynically exploited the attacks of 9/11 to promote its imperial  designs. But the present volume  confronts us with compelling evidence  for an even more disturbing conclusion: that the 9/11 attacks were  themselves orchestrated by this administration precisely so they could  be thus exploited. If this is true, it is not merely the case, as the  Downing Street memos show, that the stated reason for attacking Iraq  was a lie. It is also the case that the whole 'war on terror' was based  on a prior deception. This book hence confronts the American people---indeed the people 
            of the world as a whole---with an issue second to none in importance and urgency. I give this 
            book, which in no way can be dismissed as the ravings of ‘paranoid conspiracy theorists,’ my 
          highest possible recommendation." http://www.interlinkbooks.com



Signatory: Petition requesting a reinvestigation of 9/11:     
"We want  truthful answers to question. …  As  Americans of conscience, we ask for four things:

An  immediate investigation by New York Attorney General Eliot Spitzer 
Immediate  investigation in Congressional Hearings. 
Media  attention to scrutinize and investigate the evidence. 
The  formation of a truly independent citizens-based inquiry." http://www.911truth.org/article 



Video 7/22/06:  "I think at  simplest terms, there’s a cover-up.  The  9/11 report is a joke.  The question is:  What’s being covered up?  Is it gross  malfeasance, gross negligence, misfeasance? … Now there are a whole bunch of  unanswered questions.  And the reason  they’re unanswered is because this administration will not answer the  questions. … I just want to reassert, what Scott [Ritter, former Major in the  U.S. Marines Corps, former Chief  Weapons Inspector for the United Nations Special Commission in Iraq] said and this is the bottom line for me, just as Hitler in  1933 cynically exploited the burning of the parliament building, the Reichstag,  this is exactly what our President did in exploiting 9/11.  The cynical way in which he played on our  trauma, used it to justify attacking, making a war of aggression on a country  that he knew had nothing to do with 9/11.   That suffices for me, I think Scott is exactly right, that’s certainly  an impeachable offense." http://www.youtube.com



Bio: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ray_mcgovern




 
 

William Christison 

      William Christison (1928 - 2010) – Joined the CIA in 1950, and served on the analysis side of the Agency for 28        years. From the early 1970s he served as National Intelligence Officer (principal adviser to the Director of Central Intelligence on certain areas) for, at various times, Southeast Asia, South Asia and Africa. Before he retired in 1979 he was Director of the CIA's Office of Regional and Political Analysis, a 250-person unit responsible for political analysis of every country and region in the world.
        
Endorsement of Debunking 9/11 Debunking 3/30/07: 
		             
 "David  Ray Griffin’s Debunking 9/11 Debunking is a superb compendium of the  strong body of evidence showing the official U.S. Government story of  what happened on September 11, 2001 to be almost certainly a monstrous  series of lies.  Tragically, the entire course of U.S. foreign and  domestic policies since that date has grown out of these almost certain  falsehoods.  This single book could (and should) provide the basis for  the United Nations‚ International Court of Justice, or some specially  constituted global body (independent of the U.S.) to investigate with  highest priority, and publicly report its findings about, the charge  that unknown elements within the U.S. Government, and possibly some  individuals elsewhere closely allied to the U.S., caused or contributed  to causing the events of September 11 to happen." http://www.amazon.com

Essay Stop Belittling the Theories About September       11  8/14/06:
 
"I  now think there is persuasive evidence that the events of September did not  unfold as the Bush administration and the 9/11 Commission would have us  believe. …
            
An airliner almost certainly did not           hit The Pentagon. Hard physical evidence supports this   conclusion; among           other things, the hole in the Pentagon was considerably smaller   than an           airliner would create. …
          
 
The North and South Towers of the           World Trade Center almost certainly did not collapse and fall to   earth           because hijacked aircraft hit them.  A plane did not hit   Building 7 of           the Center, which also collapsed.  All three were most probably           destroyed by controlled demolition charges placed in the   buildings           before 9/11. A substantial volume of evidence shows that typical             residues and byproducts from such demolition charges were   present in the           three buildings after they collapsed. The quality of the   research done           on this subject is quite impressive." http://www.dissidentvoice.org

Article 9/7/06: "David Griffin believes this all was totally an  inside job - I've got to say I think that it was too. …  I have since decided that....at least some elements in this US government  had contributed in some way or other to causing 9/11 to happen or at least  allowing it to happen. … The reason that the two towers in New    York actually collapsed and fell all the way to the  ground was controlled explosions rather than just being hit by two airplanes. …  All of the characteristics of these demolitions show that they almost had to  have been controlled explosions." http://www.prisonplanet.com



Member: Scientific Panel Investigating Nine-Eleven  Association Statement: "We have found solid scientific grounds on which to question the interpretation               put upon the events of September 11, 2001 by the Office of the President               of the United States of America and subsequently propagated by the               major media of western nations."

Audio interview 9/29/06: "We very seriously need an entirely new very high level and truly independent investigation of the events of 9/11.  I think you almost have to look at the 9/11 Commission Report as a joke and not a serious piece of analysis at all.  It gave the administration what it wanted to support their official story on what happened on the date of September 11 and that's all they cared about. ... It's a monstrous crime. Absolutely a monstrous crime." http://www.electricpolitics.com

Bio: http://www.amalpress.com/




 
 

Melvin A. Goodman, PhD 


      Melvin A. Goodman, PhD – Former Division Chief and Senior Analyst at  the Office of Soviet Affairs, CIA,1966 - 1990.  Senior Analyst at the Bureau of Intelligence  and Research, State Department, 1974 - 1976. Professor of International Security at the National War   		College 1986 - 2004.  42-year Federal government career, primarily with the CIA, Department of Defense and State Department.  Currently Senior Fellow at the Center for International  Policy and Adjunct Professor of Government at Johns   		Hopkins University. Author and co-author  of several books on international relations, including: Wars of Eduard Shevardnadze, Gorbachev's Retreat: The Third World, and Bush League Diplomacy: How the Neoconservatives Are Putting the World at Risk.
      
      
Video of Congressional briefing testimony 7/22/05: 

 "This is an important examination of a 9/11 Commission that was an historic opportunity that was missed and a 9/11 Commission study that is terribly flawed. ... 

 I think the 9/11 Commission has taught me that we need to be extremely  rigorous and extremely tenacious in pursuing that truth, because there  is a corporate mentality in this country that is working against  allowing the truth to surface, even in tragedies, such as the 9/11  tragedy. ... 

 I  want to talk about the Commission itself, about the flawed process of  the Commission and finally about the conflict of interest within the Commission  that is extremely important to understand the failure of the Commission. ... 

 The most important individual to me, other than a commissioner, was the staff director, Philip Zelikow.  His conflicts of interest were so great that you do have to wonder why this individual was appointed to head this important staff of over 80 people. 

 He had very strong ties to the George Herbert Walker Bush Administration.  Very strong personal and political and policy ties to Condoleeza Rice. 

 More importantly, Philip Zelikow was running the case study program at Harvard, which took millions of dollars from the Central Intelligence Agency over a ten year period to write case studies on the CIA to establish a record that was essentially untrue with the facts about the work of the CIA. ... 

 The final report is ultimately a coverup.  I don't know how else to describe the final report." 

 Video segment 1: http://youtube.com
          Video segment 2: http://youtube.com
          Video segment 3: http://youtube.com
          Transcript: http://www.vt911.org



Signatory: Petition requesting a reinvestigation of 9/11:     
          "We want  truthful answers to question. …  As  Americans of conscience, we ask for four things: 

An  immediate investigation by New York Attorney General Eliot Spitzer 
Immediate  investigation in Congressional Hearings. 
Media  attention to scrutinize and investigate the evidence. 
The  formation of a truly independent citizens-based inquiry." http://www.911truth.org/article.php




Bio: http://ciponline.org/biographies




 
 

Michael Scheuer, PhD 


      Michael Scheuer, PhD – Former Chief of the CIA's bin Laden unit (aka Alec Station), the Osama   bin Laden tracking unit at the Counterterrorism Center 1996 - 1999. Special Adviser to the Chief of the bin Laden unit, September   2001 to November 2004. 22-year CIA career. Currently   author, political analyst and media commentator. Adjunct Professor of Security Studies, Georgetown University. Former Senior Fellow at the Jamestown Foundation, writing regularly for its   online publication Global Terrorism Analysis. Author of Through Our Enemies' Eyes: Osama bin Laden, Radical Islam, and the Future of America (2002, originally published anonymously), 
      Imperial Hubris: Why the West is Losing the War on Terror (2004, originally published anonymously), 
      Marching Toward Hell: America and Islam After Iraq (2008)
      
Interviewed by Judge Andrew Napolitano on Fox News  10/9/10: 

Michael Scheuer:  What the Colonel (Anthony   Shaffer, former Chief of the Army’s Controlled HUMINT (Human Intelligence) Program) is absolutely correct on is that the 9/11 Commission and the   Commissioners themselves were just there to whitewash it.  They were   blessed with the most brilliant staff you could imagine.  But as   Commissioners they were clearly there to not let the American people   know what happened before 9/11. 
		          


Judge Napolitano:  Was the 9/11 Commission report a whitewash as Colonel Shaffer says and   as one of the 9/11 Commissioners to whom he spoke, and you heard him   talk about this person, pretty much agrees?
        


Michael Scheuer:  It was a whitewash and a lie from top to bottom, Judge
        


Judge Napolitano:  What do you mean "a lie from top to bottom", Michael?
        


Michael Scheuer:  Well in my own case, sir, the Agency officers who were involved before   9/11 in chasing bin Laden decided that we could not simply testify under   oath without providing supporting documentation. And so all of us, both   testified under oath.  I did, I think three times and provided   documents.  I provided myself, let me speak just for myself here,   Judge,  I provided a three inch binder with over 400 pages of documentation -- not my notes, but official government documents about the failures   before 9/11.  I never heard one word back from Zelikow.  And I   approached Zelikow. He asked me for the notebook.  I told him it was   available. He asked me for it and he never got in touch to talk about one   page of material.
        


Judge Napolitano:  You obviously know what was in the loose leaf and I know you read the   9/11 Commission report.  Did anything from the loose leaf make its way   into the final report?
        


Michael Scheuer:  ... Not the important stuff.  The important stuff did not. ...
        At 11:25 of the video at http://www.youtube.com



Bio: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Michael_Scheuer




 
 

Robert David Steele (Vivas) 


      Robert David Steele (Vivas) – U.S. Marine Corps infantry and intelligence officer for twenty years.  Also served in the CIA as a clandestine case officer.  Second-ranking  civilian (GS-14) in U.S. Marine Corps Intelligence from 1988 - 1992 and a member of the Adjunct Faculty of Marine Corps University.    25-year U.S. military and intelligence career.  Currently Founder and CEO of OSS.net and a proponent of Open Source Intelligence.
      

        Author of On Intelligence:  Spies and Secrecy in an Open World (2000, Foreword by Senator David Boren (D-OK)),  The New Craft of  Intelligence: Personal, Public, & Political (2002, Foreword by Senator Pat Roberts (R-KS)),  Information Operations: All Information, All Languages, All the Time (2005, Foreword by Congressman Rob  Simmons (R-CT-02)), The Smart Nation Act: Public Intelligence in the Public Interest (2006). Co-author of NATO Open Source Intelligence Handbook (2001).  Co-editor of NATO Open Source  Intelligence Reader (2002).  Contributing editor of Peacekeeping Intelligence: Emerging Concepts for the Future (2003,  Foreword by Dame Pauline Neville-Jones, UK).         
        
Essay 10/7/06: Review of Webster Tarpley's 9/11 Synthetic Terror: Made in the USA.  "I am forced to conclude that 9/11 was at a minimum allowed to happen as  a pretext for war,  and I am forced to conclude that there is sufficient evidence to indict  (not necessarily convict) Dick Cheney, Karl Rove and others of a  neo-conservative neo-Nazi coup d'etat and kick-off of the clash of  civilizations. ...                       

            This is, without question, the most important modern reference on  state-sponsored terrorism, and also the reference that most pointedly  suggests that select rogue elements within the US Government, most  likely led by Dick Cheney with the assistance of George Tenet, Buzzy  Kronguard, and others close to the Wall Street gangs, are the most  guilty of state-sponsored terrorism....                       

          I sit here, a 54-year old, liberally educated, two graduate degrees,  war college, a life overseas, 150 IQ or so, the number #1 Amazon  reviewer for non-fiction, a former Marine Corps infantry officer, a  former CIA clandestine case officer, founder of the Marine Corps  Intelligence Center, and I have to tell anyone who cares to read this:  I believe it. I believe it enough to want a full investigation that  passes the smell test of the 9/11 families as well as objective outside  observers." http://www.amazon.com

Article 10/27/06: "While Steele stopped short of saying 9/11         was a complete inside job, he agreed that the evidence points to the overwhelming         complicity of the Bush administration.                       
		  


          "The U.S. government did not properly         investigate this and there are more rocks to be turned over," said         Steele adding, "I'm absolutely certain that WTC 7 was brought down         by controlled demolition and that as far as I'm concerned means that this         case has not been properly investigated.  There's no way that building could         have come down without controlled demolition." http://www.prisonplanet 


Editor's note: WTC Building 7 was 610 feet tall, 47 stories.  It would have been the tallest building in 33 states.  Although it was not hit by an airplane, it  completely collapsed into a pile of rubble in less than 7 seconds at 5:20 p.m. on 9/11, seven hours after the collapses of the Twin Towers.  However, no mention of its collapse appears in the 9/11 Commission's "full and complete account of the circumstances surrounding the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks."  Watch the collapse video here.  And six years after 9/11, the Federal government has yet to publish its promised final report that explains the cause of its collapse.

Bio:http://en.wikipedia.org




 
 

Robert Baer 


      Robert Baer – Former CIA Case Officer, Specialist in the Middle East, Directorate of Operations.  Awarded Career Intelligence Medal.  21-year CIA veteran.  Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist Seymour Hersh   wrote that Baer “was  considered perhaps the best on-the-ground field   officer in the Middle East.”  Best-selling author, screenwriter, and actor.  Academy Award-winning Syriana was based on Baer's memoir See No Evil.  Writer and on-camera presenter for Emmy Award-nominated documentary Cult of the Suicide Bomber.  Author of two nonfiction books about CIA operations, See No Evil (2002) and Sleeping with the Devil (2004) and the novel Blow the House Down (2007). 

Article FBI Documents Contradict 9/11 Commission Report 2/28/08: 


"There are enough discrepancies and unanswered questions in the 9/11  Commission Report that under a friendly administration, the 9/11  investigation should be re-opened."
http://rawstory.com


Audio Interview Thom Hartmann Show 6/9/06:



Thom Hartmann:  Are  you of the opinion there was an aspect of 'inside job' to 9/11 within the U.S.  government?                       

Robert Baer:  There  is that possibility, the evidence points at it.

Thom Hartmann:  And why is it not being  investigated?

Robert Baer:  Why isn't the WMD story being  investigated?  Why hasn't anybody been  held accountable for 9/11?  We held people accountable after Pearl   Harbor.  Why has there been no change in command?  Why have there  been no political repercussions?  Why has there been no -- any sort of exposure on  this?  It really makes you wonder.  http://www.911blog.

Essay The Guardian 1/12/02: "Did bin Laden act alone, through his own al-Qaida network, in launching  the attacks?  About that I'm far more certain and emphatic: no." http://books.guardian.co

Bio: http://www.concertideas.com




 
 

Milton Bearden 


      Milton Bearden – Former CIA Station Chief in Pakistan, Germany, Nigeria, and Sudan.  Served In Pakistan from 1986 to 1989, where he played a role in training the mujahedeen in Afghanistan.  Later served as the director of the Soviet/East European Division during the collapse of the Soviet Union.  He received the Distinguished Intelligence Medal, the Intelligence Medal of Merit, and the Donovan Award for his CIA service.  He received the Federal Cross of Merit from the  President of the German Federal Republic for his service in Germany at  the end of the Cold War.  30-year CIA career.  Currently author and commentator on intelligence services and terrorism.
      
Interview with Dan Rather, CBS News 9/12/01:  

 Dan Rather:  If the President should come to you and ask you, "What do you think I should do?", what would you tell him? 

 Milton Bearden:  ... Focus on finding out who did this thing yesterday and then dealing with it in a way that will not bring yet more troubles to us.   

 Dan Rather:  Well, it's	pretty	obvious that a judgment is coalescing around the President that it was Osama bin Laden. 

 Milton Bearden:  I know we live in a country where we're often told that the first thing that comes to your mind, put it down.  Put the little mark in there.  I feel slightly uncomfortable because I spent so many years wondering how the myth of Osama bin Laden got started.  We have	the	Osama bin Laden who was the great war hero in Afghanistan.  We have Osama bin Laden who was trained by CIA, funded and supported by CIA during three years of war.  I was there at the same time bin Laden was there.  He was not the great warrior that went  and fought the Soviet Union to a standstill.  The CIA had nothing to do with him.  I think that that mythological Osama bin Laden, never mind that he's an absolutely evil man, but the mythological Osama bin Laden causes me trouble.  And I think maybe there is another answer out there.  I'm not certain that I know what it is. 

 Dan Rather:  		  
          Milt Bearden again, you're one of our most experienced people with long experience in Afghanistan.  What does your gut tell you about who's responsible about these attacks this week?   

 Milton Bearden:  My gut tells me we don't know the answer yet.  My gut tells me that I'm not going to go with the first answer that comes to mind, but there's quite possible something else out there.  Experts will jump on you and say it's Osama bin Laden's MO.  He's the only one that is capable of this type of coordinated attack.  My answer to them is he's the only one you know that's capable of this kind of attack.  This was a tremendously sophisticated operation against the United States; more sophisticated than anybody would ever have ascribed to Osama bin Laden.  I think we need to do a little homework.  We need to appoint a Team B that looks for somebody else.  I'm just not convinced it was bin Laden. ... 

 Dan Rather:  		  
          There's no question in my mind that you're skeptical that Osama bin Laden, aided and abetted, at least protected by the Taliban,  should be the principal target of some large military operation.  If I'm wrong about that, tell me now. 

 Milton Bearden:  No, no, no, you're not wrong, Dan.  I'm saying is -- Let me step back one step on this and say, Osama bin Laden is an evil man and he's a component of the terrorism that we're deal with across the board.  All I'm saying is is that I think Osama bin Laden has become the metaphor for the entire problem of terrorism involving Muslims with perceived grievances against the United States.  And  I think it would be wrong to say this is a one size fits all operation and to go after bin Laden because an operation as sophisticated as carried out yesterday was an operation that was concealed from us for months, probably before it took place.  It happened without essentially a hitch, except for one aircraft.   And there's no reason to believe these same people weren't capable of covering their tracks somehow on the way out.  Now I would go so far as to say that this group who was responsible for that, if they didn't have an Osama bin Laden out there, they'd invent one because he's a terrific diversion for the rest of the world.  Could I be wrong?  Of course I could be wrong.  It could be Osama bin Laden.  http://www.911blogger.com

 
PBS Interview 1999.  Rebroadcast on  9/13/01:  Regarding Osama bin Laden 

 Milton Bearden:  We've  blamed him for every horrible event in our history except the grassy knoll.  And now we have, with I'm not sure what evidence, linked him to all of the  terrorist acts of this year --  of this decade, perhaps.  
          ... 

 Interviewer:  You're not saying Osama bin Laden is not a terrorist or is not an enemy of the  United States? 

 Milton Bearden:  Osama bin Laden has chosen to make himself an enemy of the United States.  He  has issued these disputable fatwahs, these Islamic proclamations, to kill all ... Americans and Jews.   Therefore, he's made himself a component, and I think  that the United States is absolutely justified in taking out Osama bin Laden.  But to oversimplify it by linking him to every known terrorist act in the last  decade is an insult to most Americans.  And it certainly doesn't encourage our  allies in this to take us very seriously.  Osama bin Laden is a legitimate  target for the United States, period.  But then, to completely reinforce it  with all of these insupportable accusations, I think is a disservice and an  oversimplification. ... 

 Interviewer:  So, really what we're looking at is some fact but a lot of fiction. 

 Milton Bearden:  There's a lot of fiction in there.  But we like that.  It's the whole Osama bin  Laden mythology.  It's almost part entertainment.  We don't have a national  enemy.  We haven't had a national enemy since the evil empire slipped beneath  the waves in 1991.  And I think we kind of like this way.  We like this whole  international terrorist thing oddly enough at a time when it probably is  changing its character dramatically." http://www.pbs.org



Bio: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Milton_Bearden 




 
 

Rev. William Sloane Coffin, Jr. 


      Rev. William Sloane Coffin, Jr.  (1924 - 2006) – Captain, U.S. Army Intelligence, World War II.
      CIA Case Officer, 1950 - 1953. He grew increasingly disillusioned with the role of the CIA and the   United States due to events including the CIA's involvement in   overthrowing Prime Minister Mohammed Mossadegh of Iran in 1953, followed by the CIA's orchestration of the coup that removed President Jacobo Arbenz in Guatemala in 1954. He was terribly dismayed when he learned in 1964 of the history of French and U.S. involvement in South Vietnam and how it differed from what the U.S. government public position was,   especially regarding broken promises to hold a referendum in the south   about unification with North Vietnam. He was in early opposition to the Vietnam War and became famous for his anti-war activities and his civil rights activism.
      



Ordained Presbyterian minister. Chaplain of Yale University, 1958 - 1975.
      Senior Minister, Riverside Church, New York City, 1978 - 1987. President emeritus of SANE/FREEZE: Campaign for Global Security.  Stephen Edward Scarff Memorial Visiting Professor of Religious Studies, Lawrence University 1995 - 1997.
      



Author of The Collected Sermons of William Sloane Coffin, Jr. Vol 1 & 2 (2008), A Passion for the Possible (2007), Letters to a Young Doubter (2005), Credo (2003), The Heart Is a Little to the Left: Essays on Public Morality (1999), Living the Truth in a World of Illusions (1985),  The Courage to Love (1982), Once to Every Man: A Memoir autobiography (1977), Civil Disobedience: Aid or Hindrance to Justice (1972 with Morris Leibman). 



Article William Sloane Coffin Can Rest in Peace by Kevin Barrett:




          "William Sloane Coffin spoke out for 9/11 truth before he died. ... 



William Sloane Coffin will surely rest in peace. During his remarkable  	lifetime, Coffin took on the greatest evils of his society—racism and  	imperialist war—and waged an all-out spiritual battle against them. He rode  	with the Freedom Riders protesting segregation, led a campaign of civil  	disobedience against the Vietnam War, headed the SANE-Freeze campaign  	against nuclear weapons, and—in what may one day be viewed as the capstone  	to his career—spoke out for 9/11 truth shortly before his death.  
        



Here is  	William Sloane Coffin’s final statement: 
        



'Professor David Ray Griffin is a retired theologian with a well deserved  	reputation for the thoroughness of his research. Shocked by 9/11 and its  	subsequent related events, he not only pored over various American articles,  	but beyond that, investigated English, French, German and other European and  	Asian interpretations of the same event. The result consists of exceedingly  	provocative questions with implied answers quite at variance with Washington  	official accounts! All Americans who love their country enough to dig into  	the facts of these critical times will be well rewarded by examining  	Professor Griffin's books, The New Pearl Harbor: Disturbing Questions  	about the Bush Administration and 9/11 and The 9/11 Commission  	Report: Omissions and Distortions. 
        



9/11 Truth is a very important issue with the power to bring lasting change to our country.'
 
        



                      - William Sloane Coffin"
         


http://www.mujca.com/williamsloanecoffin.htm



Bio: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/William_Sloane_Coffin
 



 
 

Michael Levine


      Michael Levine – Former Senior DEA investigator.  25-year DEA career.  Former DEA Country Attaché, Argentina and Uruguay (1979 - 1982).  Former DEA Special Operations Officer, worldwide.  Awards include the Octavio Gonzalez Award,          given by the International Narcotic Enforcement Officer's Association for the          undercover penetration of Roberto Suarez, Bolivian cocaine cartel; at that time, the biggest case in drug war history.  Over twenty          other awards from the US Justice and Treasury Departments and from foreign          police agencies. Author of several nonfiction books on DEA investigations, including Deep Cover and Big White Lie.  Radio show host and frequent media commentator on intelligence and  covert operations.
        
Signatory: Petition requesting a reinvestigation of 9/11:     
            "We want  truthful answers to question. …  As  Americans of conscience, we ask for four things: 

An  immediate investigation by New York Attorney General Eliot Spitzer 
Immediate  investigation in Congressional Hearings. 
Media  attention to scrutinize and investigate the evidence. 
The  formation of a truly independent citizens-based inquiry." http://www.911truth.org/article.php


Bio: http://www.lawsonline.com/Levine/cv.html




 
 

Coleen Rowley


      Coleen Rowley – Former   Special Agent and Minneapolis Division Counsel, FBI.  24-year FBI career.  Agent Rowley was selected one of Time Magazine's three 2002 Persons of the Year for revealing FBI headquarters' efforts to "throw up roadblocks and undermine" FBI field investigations of Al Qaeda operatives in the four weeks prior to 9/11. 
        
Memo to FBI Director Robert Mueller 5/21/02: Regarding FBI headquarters (FBIHQ) obstruction of terrorism investigations. "The fact is that key FBIHQ personnel whose job it was to assist and coordinate     with field division agents on terrorism investigations and the obtaining and     use of FISA searches (and who theoretically were privy to many more sources     of intelligence information than field division agents), continued to, almost     inexplicably, throw up roadblocks and undermine Minneapolis'     by-now desperate efforts to obtain a FISA search warrant, long after the French     intelligence service provided its information and probable cause became clear.     HQ personnel brought up almost ridiculous questions in their apparent efforts     to undermine the probable cause. ...                       

            When, in a desperate     11th hour measure to bypass the FBIHQ roadblock, the Minneapolis Division undertook     to directly notify the CIA's Counter Terrorist Center (CTC), FBIHQ personnel     actually chastised the Minneapolis agents for making the direct notification     without their approval ...                       

          I know I shouldn't be flippant about this, but jokes were actually made  that the key FBIHQ personnel had to be spies or moles, like Robert  Hansen, who were actually working for Osama Bin Laden to have so  undercut Minneapolis' effort." http://www.time.com

Interview 9/25/05: "And what I did was, I think, I put the  first good dent in the blanket defense that for 8 and a half, 9 months,  was holding - that 9/11 could not have been prevented.                       

          ... we were all settling for, ‘9/11 could not have been prevented’, it  was ‘hindsight’. Condi Rice, "Well, no one could have ever imagined  that someone would fly…" and of course, when she says that, she’s  disregarding a whole bunch of things. People are letting her get away  with it. She’s disregarding the fact of two or three prior incidents of  people trying to fly planes into buildings, attempted takeovers of  cockpits…We’re also ignoring the fact that in Minneapolis [FBI office], the acting  supervisor, arguing with [FBI] headquarters said, ‘This is a guy [Zacarias Moussaoui] that could  fly a plane into the World Trade Center’ on August 22nd!" http://www.nowpubli

Editor's note: Despite Agent Rowley's high-profile revelations and intimate knowledge of FBI headquarter's efforts to obstruct  investigations of Al Qaeda-related terrorist activities in the four weeks prior to 9/11, the 9/11 Commission never interviewed her.  The 9/11 Commission's "full and complete account of the circumstances surrounding the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks." contains no mention of her allegations that FBI headquarters "continued to, almost     inexplicably, throw up roadblocks and undermine" FBI field agent counterterrorism efforts.  The Commission Report only obliquely mentions Agent Rowley in a single footnote.  See also Special Agent Robert Wright and Special Agent Harry Samit. 

Editor's note: Despite the repeated assertions by many senior members of the Bush administration that no one could have ever imagined terrorists flying airplanes into buildings, it had indeed been anticipated and planned for.  Less than one year prior to 9/11, the Pentagon conducted the Pentagon Mass Casualty Exercise (Project MASCAL), in which a passenger airplane crashed into the Pentagon killing over 300 individuals.  See the Nov. 3, 2000 article from the US Army website, which has since been removed, but which is still available on the Internet Wayback Machine.  http://web.archive.org

Bio: http://www.pbs.org/now/politics/rowley.html




 
 

Robert G. Wright, Jr.


  Robert G. Wright, Jr. – Special Agent, International Terrorism Unit, FBI.  The only FBI agent to  seize terrorist funds (over $1.4 million) from U.S.-based Middle  Eastern terrorists using federal civil forfeiture statutes, prior to
      9/11.
      17-year FBI veteran.
  
Agent Wright's Lawsuit against the FBI, filed 5/9/02: "The FBI's conscious failure to  undertake criminal investigations of suspected terrorists in the United States was further shown when managers from the FBI's headquarters (FBIHQ) Counterterrorism Division met with the Joint Terrorism Task Force (JTTF) in Chicago and admitted to SA Wright that no one at FBIHQ reviewed or attempted to link all the reports filed by the FBI field offices regarding terrorist activities in the United States. ... 
		          



            Regrettably, the largest obstacles to SA Wright's criminal investigation efforts of the HAMAS enterprise in the United States were the management of the Chicago field office and the FBIHQ Counterterrorism Division in Washington, D.C. ...
			          



          SA Wright's successful investigation, codename Vulgar Betrayal, led to the June 9, 1998 seizure of $1.4 million of funds destined for terrorist activities. ... The seized funds were directly linked to Saudi businessman Yassin Kadi.  On October 12, 2001, Yassin Kadi, aka Yassin al-Qadi, was designated by the U.S. Government as a financial supporter of Osama Bin Laden.  According to a U.S. Government source, Kadi provided $3 million to Bin Laden and his al-Qaida organization." http://www.judicialwatch.org



Editor's note: Agent Wright was never called as a witness by the 9/11 Commission, nor is he mentioned in the 9/11 Commission's "full and complete account of the circumstances surrounding the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks" nor the Commission's separate 155-page Monograph on Terrorist Financing:
            
Despite Agent Wright's highly visible and credible criticism of the FBI's handling of investigations of suspected terrorists prior to 9/11,
Despite the public controversy caused by the refusal of the FBI to provide his manuscript to the U.S. Congress' Joint Intelligence Committee Investigation of 9/11 (JICI),
Despite the fact that he was the only FBI agent to  seize terrorist funds (over $1.4 million) from U.S.-based Middle  Eastern terrorists using federal civil forfeiture statutes, prior to
                9/11, and 
Despite the fact that one of the people directly connected to the $1.4 million seized by Agent Wright was  Yassin al-Qadi, aka Yassin Kadi, who on 10/12/01 was designated  by Presidential Executive Order 13224 as a  “Specially Designated Global Terrorist” and  financial supporter of Osama bin Laden and had his financial assets frozen in the United States.


Yassin al-Qadi is also not mentioned in the 9/11 Commission Report and is only mentioned obliquely in one footnote in the Commission's separate 155-page Monograph on Terrorist Financing.
                
                


                See also Special Agent Coleen Rowley and Special Agent Harry Samit. 


ABC News Interview 12/9/02:  "In a dramatic interview with ABCNEWS, FBI special agents and partners  Robert Wright and John Vincent say they were called off criminal  investigations of suspected terrorists tied to the deadly bombings of  two U.S. embassies in Africa. U.S. officials say al Qaeda was  responsible for the embassy attacks and the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks in  the United States.
		  
		   
		  "September the 11th is a direct result of the incompetence of the FBI's  International Terrorism Unit. No doubt about that. Absolutely no doubt  about that," Wright said. "You can't know the things I know and not go  public." http://web.archive.org



Judicial Watch Press Release 9/11/02:  "The FBI continues to illegally refuse the release of SA Wright’s 500 page manuscript, Fatal Betrayals of the Intelligence Mission,  that SA Wright submitted for prepublication review in October 2001.  In  fact, the FBI refused to turn the manuscript over to Sen. Richard C.  Shelby, Vice Chairman of the Joint Intelligence Committee, charged with  investigating the FBI’s intelligence failures." http://www.judicialwatch.org



Editor's note: Agent Wright's lawsuit to allow publication of his book is ongoing.  The current status can be found here:  http://www.judicialwatch.org/wrightcase.shtml




 
 

Harry Samit
        (testifying at the Moussaoui trial Source: Agence France-Presse)


      Harry Samit  – Special Agent, FBI, assigned to the FBI Field Office in Minneapolis, Minnesota. Former U.S. Navy pilot and Naval Intelligence Officer. He is most noted for arresting Zacarias Moussaoui on August 16, 2001.
      
Associated Press Article FBI Agent Slams Bosses at Moussaoui Trial 3/20/06: 

The FBI agent [Harry Samit] who arrested  Zacarias Moussaoui in August 2001 testified Monday he spent almost four  weeks trying to warn U.S. officials about the radical Islamic student  pilot but "criminal negligence" by superiors in Washington thwarted a  chance to stop the 9/11 attacks. ... 

 But Samit told MacMahon he couldn't persuade FBI headquarters or the Justice Department to take his fears seriously. No one from Washington called Samit to say this intelligence altered the picture the agent had been painting since Aug. 18 in a running battle with Maltbie and Maltbie's boss, David Frasca, chief of the radical fundamentalist unit at headquarters. ... 

 Under questioning from MacMahon, Samit acknowledged that he had told the Justice Department inspector general that "obstructionism, criminal negligence and careerism" on the part of FBI headquarters officials had prevented him from getting a warrant that would have revealed more about Moussaoui's associates. He said that opposition blocked "a serious opportunity to stop the 9/11 attacks." Article archived at http://www.911truth.org



Washington Post Article FBI Was Warned About Moussaoui: 3/21/06:  

 "An FBI agent [Harry Samit] who  interrogated Zacarias Moussaoui before Sept. 11, 2001, warned his  supervisors more than 70 times that Moussaoui was a terrorist and  spelled out his suspicions that the al-Qaeda operative was plotting to  hijack an airplane, according to federal court testimony yesterday. [Editor's note: All 70 efforts occurred in the 4 weeks before 9/11.] 

 Agent Harry Samit told jurors at Moussaoui's death penalty trial that  his efforts to secure a warrant to search Moussaoui's belongings were  frustrated at every turn by FBI officials he accused of "criminal  negligence." Article archived at http://www.911truth.org




Editor's note: The 9/11 Commission Report does mention differences of opinion within the FBI about obtaining a warrant to investigate the possessions of Zacarias Moussaoui and a few of Agent Samit's efforts to obtain the warrant are mentioned. However, there is no mention that Agent Samit made 70 frantic efforts in the 4 weeks prior to 9/11 to obtain that warrant. Agent Samit is not mentioned by name in the 9/11 Commission's "full and complete account of the circumstances surrounding the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks," however, he is referred to as Harry S. in 3 footnotes. The Commission Report also contains no mention of Agent Samit's allegations of "obstructionism, criminal negligence and careerism" on the part of FBI headquarters officials.  See also Special Agent Colleen Rowley and Special Agent Robert Wright.




 
 

Sibel D. Edmonds 


      Sibel D. Edmonds – Witness before  the 9/11 Commission.  Former Language Translation Specialist, performing translations for counterterrorism and counterintelligence operations, FBI.
        
Letter to 9/11 Commission 8/1/04 : "I find your report seriously flawed in its failure to  address serious intelligence issues that I am aware of, which have been  confirmed, and which as a witness to the commission, I made you aware of. Thus,  I must assume that other serious issues that I am not aware of were in the same  manner omitted from your report. These omissions cast doubt on the validity of  your report and therefore on its conclusions and recommendations." http://www.com

Article 7/22/04: "My translations of the 9/11 intercepts included [terrorist] money  laundering, detailed and date-specific information ... if they were to  do real investigations, we would see several significant high-level  criminal prosecutions in this country [the US] ... and believe me, they  will do everything to cover this up." http://www.guardian.co.uk

Interview The Alex Jones Show 7/24/06:


Alex Jones:  I'm asking you-- I mean, clearly, where does the evidence point on 9/11?
	                    


Sibel Edmonds:  Well, that is the whole point, Alex. They are not letting out all the evidence. ...
                        
	                    


Alex Jones:  But even if they cut evidence out of reports, we have the clear evidence of Thermite in the buildings, we have clear evidence of C.I.A. insider trading, NORAD standing down, U.S. troops already massed in central Asia, Bush having the launch order two days before to attack Afghanistan.  I mean, Sibel, when you put all that together-- I'm asking you personally-- where does all the evidence point? 


Sibel Edmonds:  The evidence points to a massive government cover-up. ... 


Alex Jones:  Sibel, what I'm asking you is, in your gut, do you think 9/11 to some extent is an inside job? 


Sibel Edmonds:  Well, again, as I am telling you, I'm trying to tell you is, I have all the evidence of cover-up.  Now, who were the people behind this?  And why?  And how?  We don't have a definite answer.  As I said, we can come up with theories, we can come up with speculation, but they do not--I mean, in my opinion, they are not facts.  But also what government has been giving us, again, I don't consider those a total--you know-- total truth or fact either. 


Alex Jones:  Would you be surprised? 


Sibel Edmonds:  No. I wouldn't. 


Alex Jones:  You wouldn't be surprised if elements or criminal elements or private contractors were involved in 9/11? 


Sibel Edmonds:  No, I wouldn't be surprised. 


Alex Jones:  So you wouldn't be surprised like many others, because of the evidence and the cover-up you've seen, if 9/11 was an inside job? 


Sibel Edmonds:  At this point, I'd have to say no, I wouldn't be surprised. 
						
Alex Jones:  Do you think the evidence is leaning towards that? 
Sibel Edmonds:  Well, again, considering the level of cover-up and the length at which they have gone to gag people and prevent information-- this information from coming out, I would say yes.


 Bio: http://www.nswbc.org/nswbc_staff.htm
 



 
 

Bogdan Dzakovic


      Bogdan Dzakovic – Witness before  the 9/11 Commission.  14-year Counter-terrorism expert in the Security  Division of the Federal Aviation Administration. Team Leader of the FAA's Red (Terrorism) Team, which  conducted undercover tests on airport security through simulated terrorist  attacks.  Former Team  Leader in the Federal Air Marshal program.   Former Coast Guard officer.
        
Video transcript 8/21/05 : Regarding the 9/11 Commission "The best I could say about it is they  really botched the job by not really going into the real failures. … At worst,  I think the 9/11 Commission Report is treasonous."  http://www.911report.com

Signatory of Petition to Release Information Pertaining to 9/11 10/5/06: "We, the undersigned, demand the immediate declassification and release  of:
           
 all transcripts and documents relating to the July 10, 2001 meeting  that took place between former CIA Director George Tenet and then  National Security Advisor, Condoleezza Rice. It has been alleged that  this urgent and out-of-the-ordinary meeting was called to discuss the  increasingly dire warnings of an imminent al Qaeda attack within the  U.S. ... 
the redacted 28 pages of the Joint Inquiry Into The Terrorist Attacks of September 11, 2001 (JICI), and 
the CIA Inspector General’s report, CIA Accountability With Respect To The 9/11 Attacks


The disastrous nature of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks  warrant the release of all of this information so that the American  public may learn what its government did or did not do to protect them.  Had this nation been properly warned of the looming and imminent  terrorist threat, life saving choices could have been made that day." http://www.petitiononline.com/july10




Bio: http://www.theaviationnation.com
 



 
 

Steve Elson 



      Steve Elson – Former Special Agent with the U.S. Navy, DEA and FAA. Specialist in Counterterrorism, Intelligence, and Security. Twenty-two years military experience, primarily in Naval   		Special Warfare and nine years Federal service with the FAA and DEA. Retired Navy SEAL.
        
Article 8/3/04: "A former Navy SEAL and Drug Enforcement Administration rep in South  America, Elson is not a timid man. "I'd give the commission a 'D' for  investigating the FAA," he declares. ... "The commissioners knew a lot  more than they included in the 9/11 report," he says. "They sold out." http://www.secure-skies.org

Signatory of Petition to Release Information Pertaining to 9/11 10/5/06: "We, the undersigned, demand the immediate declassification and release  of:
           
 all transcripts and documents relating to the July 10, 2001 meeting  that took place between former CIA Director George Tenet and then  National Security Advisor, Condoleezza Rice. It has been alleged that  this urgent and out-of-the-ordinary meeting was called to discuss the  increasingly dire warnings of an imminent al Qaeda attack within the  U.S. ... 
the redacted 28 pages of the Joint Inquiry Into The Terrorist Attacks of September 11, 2001 (JICI), and 
the CIA Inspector General’s report, CIA Accountability With Respect To The 9/11 Attacks


The disastrous nature of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks  warrant the release of all of this information so that the American  public may learn what its government did or did not do to protect them.  Had this nation been properly warned of the looming and imminent  terrorist threat, life saving choices could have been made that day." http://www.petitiononline.com/july10



Bio: http://www.nswbc.org/nswbc_staff.htm




 
 

Raymond A. Ciccolilli


 Raymond A. Ciccolilli – Former U.S. Sky Marshal and Senior U.S. Customs Inspector.  Retired  from U.S. Customs and Border Protection after 33 years.  Worked on almost every enforcement team within U.S. Customs.
      
Statement in support of Architects and Engineers petition: 

 "I am  ashamed that I spent so many years defending the borders only to now  know that we are now living the most corrupt time in all of U.S.  history.  I had some questions in my mind about all the circumstances  involved in 9/11 but it wasn't until I watched this DVD did all the  pieces of the puzzle fall into place.  I guess, I, too, was living in  denial.  No one wants to believe this, but having witnessed two jet  plane crashes in the past, and watching the Trade Center buildings  collapse, I know that the facts do not add up. 

 After viewing several other documentaries on 9/11, I am now convinced  these building were deliberately destroyed.  Someone has to be held  accountable."  http://www.ae911truth.org



Signatory: Petition requesting a reinvestigation of 9/11, signed by more than 1,500 Architects and Engineers: 

 "On Behalf of the People of the United States of America, the     undersigned Architects and Engineers for 9/11 Truth and     affiliates  hereby petition for, and demand, a truly     independent investigation with subpoena power in order to     uncover the full truth surrounding the events of 9/11/01 -     specifically the collapse of the World Trade Center Towers and     Building 7.  We believe that there is sufficient doubt about     the official story and therefore that the 9/11 investigation     must be re-opened and must include a full inquiry into the     possible use of explosives that may have been the actual cause     behind the destruction of the World Trade Center Towers and     WTC Building 7." http://www.ae911truth.org/joinus.php



Editor's note: WTC Building 7 was 610 feet tall, 47 stories.  It would have been the tallest building in 33 states.  Although it was not hit by an airplane, it  completely collapsed into a pile of rubble in less than 7 seconds at 5:20 p.m. on 9/11, seven hours after the collapses of the Twin Towers.  However, no mention of its collapse appears in the 9/11 Commission's "full and complete account of the circumstances surrounding the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks."  Watch the collapse video here.  And six years after 9/11, the Federal government has yet to publish its promised final report that explains the cause of its collapse.




 
 

Sgt. Chadwick Brooks
 
 

Sgt. William   			Lagasse


      Sgt. Chadwick Brooks and Sgt. William   			Lagasse – U.S. Pentagon Police Department (Pentagon                Force Protection Agency) officers, who were on duty at or near the CITGO gas station on 9/11 and eyewitnesses to the approach of Flight 77 and its alleged impact at the Pentagon.
      
Interviewed by Craig Ranke in the PentaCon video documentary, filmed on 11/7/06:



Craig Ranke:  Now how sure are you that the plane was to the north, coming from  the north side of the Navy Annex--you're saying  it was pretty  much between the Navy Annex and Arlington cemetery.  How certain are you  of that?		  
		  


Sgt. Lagasse:  100 percent, I'd bet my life on it. ...		  
		  
Craig Ranke:  Is there anything you told me that you think you might have just deduced?		  
		  
Sgt. Lagasse:  No, I mean, like I said the things that aren't up for grabs; the plane was there; went into the building.		  
		  Craig Ranke:  The plane was far to the North side of the station.  Did not pass over the station.		  
		  
Sgt. Lagasse: Yeah, it's not like there was the shadow of a wingtip going over here.  It was far enough out that I could see it because the one thing that made me realize what kind of plane it was; was being able to see both engines, you know, so it wasn't obscured at all. ...
          		  
		  

Craig Ranke:  Sgt. Brooks is going to draw for me on the image, where he saw the plane fly. ... [Sgt. Brooks draws a line on the aerial photo of the Pentagon area.]		  
		  

Sgt. Lagasse:  That's damn near perfect from what I saw.  And we've never -- for the record we never talked to each other about this. 		  
		  

Sgt. Brooks:  Yeah, for the record, we never -- we've never discussed it at all. ...		  
		  Craig Ranke:  So you guys, neither of you guys have really talked about this with each other?  Never in all these five years, and you both independently drew the flight path line pretty much exact.		  
		  

Sgt. Lagasse:  I know, I was -- the way this has been going -- who knew what he was going to put down there because he was in a different location.  But it's right there, which makes me feel good about the way I remembered it.		  
		  Craig Ranke:  So you're both pretty much 100% certain that that's what you remember the flight path being? 		  
		  

Sgt. Brooks:  But from different locations, yes. http://thepentacon.com

Editor's note: Sgt. Brooks' and Sgt. Lagasse's eyewitness descriptions of the path taken by Flight 77 as it approached the Pentagon from north of the Naval Annex and CITGO gas station differ significantly from the official account, which claims Flight 77 approached the Pentagon from significantly further south.  The officers' statements are corroborated by the statements of other eyewitnesses recorded in the PentaCon documentary.
	   		  
		  


		  
		  This more northerly flight path is   inconsistent with the swath of destruction inside the Pentagon, which runs from the southwest to northeast, as reported in the Pentagon Building Damage Report.  The more northerly flight path is also inconsistent with downing the five light poles, which is attributed to Flight 77 in the official account.


		  

          Sgt. Brooks' and Sgt. Lagasse's eyewitness statements are further corroborated by the analysis of Flight 77's Flight Data Recorder performed by the group, Pilots for 911 Truth, whose members include the former Head of the Department of Aeronautical Engineering at the U.S. Air Force   Institute of Technology, Lt. Col. Robert Bowman.  See the association's one-hour video presentation and press release for more details.




 
 
 
 
William G. Weaver, JD, PhD 
        No photo available


      William G. Weaver, JD, PhD  – Former U.S. Army Signals Intelligence officer.  Currently Director of Academic Programs,
      Institute for Policy and Economic Development,  University of Texas, El Paso, specializing   			in executive branch secrecy policy, governmental abuse, and law and   			bureaucracy.  Author, co-author, and editor of several books on law and political theory, including: Presidential Secrecy and the Law (2007), New Perspectives on American Law: An Introduction to Private Law in Politics and Society (1997), Political Science and Feminism: Integration or Transformation? (1997), Pragmatism in Law and Society (1991).
      
          
Essay 9/5/06: Regarding the 9/11 Commission - "In their responsibility to report all the facts: They  either refused to interview all relevant experts and witnesses, or, they  censored the reports provided to them by those with direct and first-hand  information. Both these acts were selective and intentional. Contrary to their  pledge to establish accountability: They refused to hold anyone accountable and  lamely justified it by saying, "We don’t want to point a finger at anyone." http://www.nswbc.org



Bio: http://academics.utep.edu/Default.aspx?tabid=21347




 

        Edward J. Costello



        John M. Cole



        Mark Conrad, JD 



        Rosemary N. Dew


        Bogdan Dzakovic
        Pictured above


        Sibel D. Edmonds
        Pictured above 


        Steve Elson
        Pictured above 


        David Forbes
        No photo available


        Melvin A. Goodman 
        Pictured above


 
        Mark Graf


        Gilbert M. Graham
        No photo available


 
        Diane Kleiman 


        Lt. Col. Karen Kwiatkowski 
        Pictured above 



        Lynne A. Larkin 



        David MacMichael, PhD 


        Raymond L. McGovern
        Pictured above 


        Theodore J. Pahle
        No photo available


        Behrooz Sarshar
        No photo available


 
        Brian F. Sullivan
        


        Larry J. Tortorich
        No photo available 


 
        Jane A. Turner 



        John B. Vincent



        Fred Whitehurst, JD, PhD 


        Col. Ann Wright
        Pictured above 


        Matthew J. Zipoli
        No photo available
  


Letter to Congress regarding the 9/11 Commission Report 9/13/04, signed  by the following 25 military, intelligence, and law enforcement veterans: http://www.nswbc.org 


      "[W]e the undersigned wish to bring to the attention  of the Congress and the people of the United States what we believe are  serious shortcomings in the  report and its recommendations. … 		  


      Omission is one of the major flaws in the Commission’s report.  We are aware of  significant issues and cases that were duly reported to the commission by those  of us with direct knowledge, but somehow escaped attention. …		  

      The omission of such serious and applicable issues and information by itself  renders the report flawed, and casts doubt on the validity of many of its  recommendations. ... 		  

      The Commission, with its incomplete report of "facts and circumstances",
      intentional avoidance of assigning accountability, and disregard for the knowledge,
      expertise and experience of those who actually do the job, has now set about pressuring
      our Congress and our nation to hastily implement all its recommendations. ...                       



      We the undersigned, who have worked within various government agencies (FBI,
      CIA, FAA, DIA, Customs) responsible for national security and public safety, call upon
      you in Congress to include the voices of those with first-hand knowledge and expertise in
      the important issues at hand.  We stand ready to do our part." http://www.nswbc.org

Edward J. Costello,  Jr. – Former Special Agent, Counterterrorism,  FBI.  Former Judge pro tem., Los Angeles, CA.
      

John M. Cole – Former  Intelligence Operations Specialist,   in the FBI’s Counterintelligence Division.  In charge of FBI’s foreign intelligence investigations covering India, Pakistan and Afghanistan. 18-year FBI career. 


        Mark Conrad, JD – Retired Agent in Charge, Internal Affairs, U.S. Customs, responsible for the internal   		integrity and security for areas encompassing nine states and two   		foreign locations.  Former Federal Sky Marshall.  27-year U.S. Customs career.  Currently Associate General Counsel, National Association of Federal Agents.  Assistant Professor of   		Criminal Justice at Troy University.


        Rosemary N. Dew – Former Supervisory  Special Agent, Counterterrorism and Counterintelligence, FBI.  Former member of The President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory   Committee (NSTAC) and the Electronic Commerce/Cyber Crime Working Group. 13-year FBI career. 


        Bogdan Dzakovic – Witness before  the 9/11 Commission.  14-year Counter-terrorism expert in the Security  Division of the Federal Aviation Administration.  Team Leader of the FAA's Red (Terrorism) Team, which  conducted undercover tests on airport security through simulated terrorist  attacks.  Former Team  Leader in the Federal Air Marshal program.   Former Coast Guard officer.   (See also individual statement above.)


        Sibel D. Edmonds – Witness before  the 9/11 Commission.  Former Language Translation Specialist, performing translations for counterterrorism and
      counterintelligence operations, FBI.  (See also individual statement above.)


        Steve Elson – Former Special Agent with the U.S. Navy and the FAA. Specialist in Counterterrorism, Intelligence, and Security.  Twenty-two years military experience, primarily in Naval   		Special Warfare and nine years Federal service with the FAA and DEA.  Retired Navy SEAL.   (See also individual statement above.)


        David Forbes – Former head of Thames Valley Police Fraud Squad, trained at New Scotland Yard.  Over 30 years experience in law enforcement, commercial and industrial security-related risk management, and
      service sector business management.  Currently Aviation, Logistics  and Govt. Security Analyst, BoydForbes, Inc.


                    Melvin A. Goodman – Former Division Chief and Senior Analyst at  the Office of Soviet Affairs, CIA,1966 - 1990.  Senior Analyst at the Bureau of Intelligence  and Research, State Department, 1974 - 1976.  Professor of International Security at the National War   		College 1986 - 2004.  Currently Senior Fellow at the Center for International  Policy and Adjunct Professor of International Relations at Johns   		Hopkins University. He is the author and co-author of five books on international relations. (See also individual statement above.)


        Mark Graf – Former Security  Supervisor, Planner, and Derivative Classifier, Department of Energy.  Former Chairman of the Rocky Flats (DOE) Physical Security Systems Working Group   from 1990 through 1995.


        Gilbert M. Graham – Retired Special  Agent, Counterintelligence, FBI. 24-year FBI career. 


        Diane Kleiman – Former Special Agent,  US Customs.


        Lt. Col. Karen U. Kwiatkowski, PhD, U.S. Air  Force (ret) – Former Political-Military  Affairs Officer in the Office of the Secretary of Defense. Also served on the staff of the  Director of the National Security Agency. 20-year Air Force veteran.  (See also individual statement above.)


        Lynne A. Larkin – Former CIA Operations  Officer.  Served in several CIA foreign stations and in the CIA's counter-intelligence center helping chair a multi-agency task force
      and seminars on coordinating intelligence among intelligence and crime prevention agencies.


                  David MacMichael, PhD – Former Senior Estimates Officer with        special responsibility for Western Hemisphere Affairs at the        CIA's National Intelligence Council.  Former Captain, U.S. Marine Corps.


        Raymond L. McGovern – Former Chairman, National Intelligence  Estimates, CIA, responsible for preparing the President’ Daily Brief (PDB) for Ronald Reagan and George H.W. Bush.   27-year CIA veteran.  Former U.S. Army Intelligence Officer.  (See also individual statement above.)


        Theodore J. Pahle – Former Senior Intelligence   		Officer with the Defense Intelligence Agency.  His 37-year intelligence   		career was exclusively as a HUMINT (Human Intelligence) operations officer with DIA, Office   		of Naval Intelligence and U.S. Army Intelligence.  He is a Middle East and Latin American   		operations specialist.  Today, he continues to support the HUMINT effort   		as a contract instructor.


        Behrooz Sarshar – Retired Language  Translation Specialist, performing Farsi translations for counterterrorism
      and counterintelligence operations dealing with Iran and Afghanistan, FBI.


                  Brian F. Sullivan – Retired Special  Agent and Risk Management Specialist, FAA.  Retired Lieutenant   		Colonel, Military Police.


        Commander Larry J. Tortorich, U.S. Navy (ret) – Former Deputy Program Manager for Logistics – Tomahawk Cruise Missiles.  24-year Navy career in the fields of aviation and counterterrorism.  Two years as         a federal employee with DHS/TSA in the fields of security and         counterterrorism.  


        Jane A. Turner – Retired Special  Agent, FBI.  24-year FBI career. 


        John B. Vincent – Retired Special  Agent, Counterterrorism, FBI.  27-year FBI career.


        Fred Whitehurst, JD, PhD – Retired  Supervisory Special Agent / Laboratory Forensic Examiner, FBI.  16-year FBI career.  Former U.S. Army Intelligence Officer. 


        Col. Ann Wright, U.S. Army (ret) – Retired Army officer and former U.S. Diplomat.  Served 13 years on active duty with the U.S. Army and 16 years in the U.S. Army Reserves.  She was a member of the International law team in Operation Urgent Fury in Grenada and served in Panama and Somalia.  She joined the Foreign Service in 1987 and  served as Deputy Chief of Mission of U.S. Embassies in Sierra Leone, Micronesia and Afghanistan.  She helped reopen the US Embassy in Kabul in December, 2001.  One of three U.S. State Department officials to publicly resign in direct protest of the invasion of Iraq in March, 2003.  (See also individual statement above.)


        Matthew J. Zipoli – Special Response  Team (SRT) Officer, DOE.    Vice President, Security Police Officer's Association, Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory		  




 
U.S. FEDERAL AND STATE GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS 



 
 

Senator Max Cleland 


      Senator Max Cleland – Former member of the 9/11  Commission, resigned in December 2003.  Currently serves on the board of directors of the  Export-Import Bank of the United    States.  U.S. Senator from Georgia 1997 - 2002.  Secretary of State of Georgia  1982 - 1996.  Administrator of the U.S. Veterans  Administration 1977 - 1981.  Former Captain, U.S.  Army.  Awarded Silver Star and Bronze Star for bravery in Viet Nam.  Triple amputee from war injuries. 
      
      
Article New York Times 10/26/03: "As each day goes  by, we learn that this government knew a whole lot more about these  terrorists before Sept. 11 than it has ever admitted." http://www.commondreams.org



Article Boston Globe 11/13/03: "If this decision stands [to limit access to White House documents], I, as  a member of the [9/11] Commission, cannot look any American in the eye, especially  family members of victims, and say the Commission had full access. This  investigation is now compromised. . . . This is `The Gong Show'; this isn't protection of national security." http://www.



Article Salon 11/21/03: Regarding the 9/11 Commission "It is a national scandal." http://dir.salon.com



Resigned from the 9/11 Commission, 12/03, after having served on it for 12 months.  Former Senator Bob Kerrey from Nebraska was selected to replace him.  The 9/11 Commission Report was issued 7 months later. 



Interview Democracy Now 3/23/04: "One of these days we will have to get the full story  because the 9-11 issue is so important to America. But this White House wants  to cover it up."   http://www.democracynow.org



Bio: http://memory.loc.gov




 
 

Senator Bob Kerrey


      Senator Bob Kerrey – Appointed to the 9/11 Commission upon the resignation of Senator Max Cleland in December 2003 and served on the Commission during the final seven months of its 19-month existence.  U.S. Senator from Nebraska 1989 - 2000.  Governor of Nebraska   1983 - 1987.  Unsuccessful candidate for the Democratic presidential nomination in 1992.  Former member, Navy SEAL special forces 1966 - 1969, serving in  Vietnam.  Combat injuries resulted in the amputation of the lower part of one leg.  Awarded the Congressional Medal of Honor for "conspicuous gallantry and intrepidity at the risk of his   life" for his service in Vietnam.  Currently, President,   New School University 2001 - present.
        
Statement of Richard Greene, Air America Radio host 3/2/08: 

 "Now I went to Senator Kerrey and I said. "Senator --" because he's associated with Air America  -- I said, "Senator, are you still believing that there wasn't enough time and enough money to do an investigation?" 

 And he said, "Absolutely." 

 I said, "Are you calling for a new investigation?" 

 And he said, "No, Richard, I am going further than that." He said, "I am calling for a permanent 9/11 Commission." 

 And I said, "Senator, is this public? Can I announce that on the air? And are you willing to come on the air and say that?" 

 And he said, "Yes." http://www.youtube.com



Newsweek article by Philip Shenon 3/23/09:

 
			"The [9/11] commission appears to have ignored obvious clues throughout 2003  and 2004 that its account of the 9/11 plot and Al Qaeda's history  relied heavily on information obtained from detainees who had been  subjected to torture, or something not far from it. ... 

 That  has troubling implications for the credibility of the commission's  final report. In intelligence circles, testimony obtained through  torture is typically discredited; research shows that people will say  anything under threat of intense physical pain. 

 And  yet it is a distinct possibility that Al Qaeda suspects who were the  exclusive source of information for long passages of the commission's  report may have been subjected to "enhanced" interrogation techniques,  or at least threatened with them, because of the 9/11 Commission. ...

 Footnotes  in the panel's report indicate when information was obtained from  detainees interrogated by the CIA. An analysis by NBC News found that  more than a quarter of the report's footnotes—441 of some  1,700—referred to detainees who were subjected to the CIA's "enhanced"  interrogation program, including the trio who were waterboarded. 

 Commission  members note that they repeatedly pressed the Bush White House and CIA  for direct access to the detainees, but the administration refused. So  the commission forwarded questions to the CIA, whose interrogators  posed them on the panel's behalf. ...  

 Former senator Bob  Kerrey of Nebraska, a Democrat on the commission, told me last year he  had long feared that the investigation depended too heavily on the  accounts of Al Qaeda detainees who were physically coerced into  talking. While he thought the commission's larger narrative about the September 11 attacks held up, "there's reason now to suspect that we may have gotten some of  the details wrong" about the 9/11 plot and about Al Qaeda. 

 Kerrey  said it might take "a permanent 9/11 commission" to end the remaining  mysteries of September 11." http://www.newsweek.com

 
Bio: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bob_Kerrey




 
 

Terrell E. Arnold, MA 


Terrell (Terry) E. Arnold, MA – Former Deputy Director, Office of  Counter-Terrorism and Emergency Planning, U.S. State Department. Former Chairman, Department of International Studies, National War College. Graduate of the National War College. Retired Senior Foreign Service Officer of the U.S. Department of State. He has served as a security and crisis management consultant for several Fortune 500  companies. He also served as a crisis management consultant for several Federal agencies, including The State Department, the Department of Defense,  the U.S. Customs Service and the Federal Emergency Management Agency.  U.S. Navy veteran of World War II and Korean conflict. Author, co-author, and editor of Fighting Back: Winning the War Against Terrorism (1986), Beyond  the Iran-Contra Crisis : The Shape of U. S. Anti-Terrorism Policy in  the Post-Reagan Era (1988), The Violence Formula: Why People Lend Sympathy and Support to Terrorism (1990), Think About Terrorism: The New Warfare (1991), A World Less Safe: Essays on Conflict in the 21st Century (2005).
      
Essay It is Vital to Move Beyond 911  7/3/07:  

 "More than five years after the fact, Washington leadership      keeps the American people fixated on the events of 9/11. They have brought      us no closer than we were on September 12, 2001 to resolving how it was      executed and by what enemy.  They tell us repeatedly that it was the work      of al Qaida, but they have yet to show us the proofs. They told us the      official version of what happened that day, but their story is laced with      contradictions, and the facts visible on the ground at the time belie much      of the official account. Our leadership gave us a Sopranos blank screen      ending to a terrible tragedy, while working below the radar to avoid our      established laws and slowly to destroy our democratic institutions. Every      American must look carefully at the pattern of decay that began with 9/11. ... 

 As an alleged post 9/11 defense, the War on Terrorism      is a gigantic fraud. ... 

 We cannot let a single criminal act, the facts and perpetrators      of which are still obscure, destroy our society.  With all respect due      to those who lost family and friends in the attacks of 9/11, there is no      evident search for justice, truth or our future safety in the US government      actions outlined in this paper. Instead we are watching the most brutal      power games of our times that benefit the few at the expense of the rest      of us."  http://www.rense.com
 



Interview  Leading Counter-Terrorism Expert and Former High-Level Official Slams War on Terror and Questions 9/11  Washington's Blog 2/3/09:  


Question: What facts or observations make you doubt that the official government story does not fully explain how 9/11 was carried out?
          
Terry Arnold: The nature of events in New York. The buildings falling down. I'm not satisfied by the notion that planes hitting buildings constructed as these would have caused them to collapse. The last building to fall was not even attacked.
          
Question: Now let's address the question of who carried out the attacks. You write, "They tell us repeatedly that it [9/11] was the work of al Qaida, but they have yet to show us the proofs."
          

As a counter-terrorism expert, what sort of proofs would you expect the government to show if al Qaeda had carried out the 9/11 attacks - at least without the help of any state?
          
Terry Arnold: There is a lot of work in getting sixteen people ready to commit voluntary and simultaneous suicide. The case has not been made. The official story is not persuasive because it does not address the real issues of complexity.
          
Question: You also say, "They told us the official version of what happened that day, but their story is laced with contradictions, and the facts visible on the ground at the time belie much of the official account."
          

What contradictions do you see with the official version of 9/11? And what facts belie the official account?
          
Terry Arnold: The sheer mechanics of the event. The chances of two buildings of that height and structure merely collapsing in their own footprint are extremely slim.
          
Bio: Library of Congress




 
 

Angelo M. Codevilla, PhD 


Angelo M. Codevilla, PhD – Former U.S. State Department  Foreign Service Officer specializing in U.S.  intelligence operations in Western Europe. Member of  President-Elect Ronald Reagan's Transition Team within the State Department and principal author of the team's report on  intelligence.
    Former Staff Member, U.S.  Senate Intelligence Committee dealing  with oversight of the intelligence services 1977 - 1985.
    Former  U.S. Naval Officer. Currently Vice Chairman of the U.S. Army War College Board of Visitors.



			Professor of International Relations, Boston University 1995 - present.  Fellow of the Claremont Institute. Former   academic appointments include Professorial Lecturer at  Georgetown University; Senior Research Fellow for the Hoover  Institution at Stanford University; Assistant Professor, Grove City College; and Assistant Professor, North Dakota State  College.
	  


			Senior Editor of The American Spectator. Author of Advice to War Presidents: A Remedial Course in Statecraft (2009), No Victory, No Peace (2004), The Character of Nations: How Politics Makes and Breaks Prosperity, Family, and Civility (2000), Between The Alps and a Hard Place (2000), The Prince, by Niccolo Machiavelli, translated by Angelo Codevilla (1995), Informing Statecraft: Intelligence for a New Century (1992), While Others Build: The Commonsense Approach to the Strategic Defence Initiative (1988), Modern France (1974). Co-author of War: Ends and Means (1988), Arms Control Delusion (1987).
            
Essay in  The American Spectator  3/13/09:  

 "Seven years after Osama bin Laden's last verifiable appearance    among the living, there is more evidence for Elvis's presence    among us than for his. Hence there is reason to ask whether the    paradigm of Osama bin Laden as terrorism's deus ex machina and of    al Qaeda as the prototype of terrorism may be an artifact of our    Best and Brightest's imagination, and whether investment in this    paradigm has kept our national security establishment from    thinking seriously about our troubles' sources. So let us take a    fresh look at the fundamentals.


          Negative evidence alone compels the conclusion that Osama is long    since dead. Since October 2001, when Al Jazeera's Tayseer Alouni    interviewed him, no reputable person reports having seen him—not    even after multiple-blind journeys through intermediaries. The    audio and video tapes alleged to be Osama's never convinced    impartial observers. The guy just does not look like Osama. Some    videos show him with a Semitic aquiline nose, while others show    him with a shorter, broader one. Next to that, differences    between colors and styles of beard are small stuff. 
		  

Nor does the tapes' Osama sound like Osama. In 2007 Switzerland's    Dalle Molle Institute for Artificial Intelligence, which does    computer voice recognition for bank security, compared the voices    on 15 undisputed recordings of Osama with the voices on 15    subsequent ones attributed to Osama, to which they added two by    native Arab speakers who had trained to imitate him and were    reading his writings. All of the purported Osama recordings (with    one falling into a gray area) differed clearly from one another    as well as from the genuine ones. By contrast, the CIA found all    the recordings authentic. It is hard to imagine what methodology    might support this conclusion. 
		  


		  Also in 2007, Professor Bruce Lawrence, who heads Duke    University's religious studies program, argued in a book on    Osama's messages that their increasingly secular language is    inconsistent with Osama's Wahhabism. Lawrence noted as well that    the Osama figure in the December 2001 video, which many have    taken as his assumption of responsibility for 9/11, wears golden    rings—decidedly un-Wahhabi. He also writes with the wrong hand.    Lawrence concluded that the messages are fakes, and not very good    ones. The CIA has judged them all good.
		  
		  


		  Above all, whereas Elvis impersonators at least sing the King's    signature song, "You ain't nutin' but a hound dawg," the words on    the Osama tapes differ substantively from what the real Osama    used to say—especially about the most important matter. On    September 16, 2001, on Al Jazeera, Osama said of 9/11: "I stress    that I have not carried out this act, which appears to have been    carried out by individuals with their own motivation." Again, in    the October interview with Tayseer Alouni, he limited his    connection with 9/11 to ideology: "If they mean, or if you mean,    that there is a link as a result of our incitement, then it is    true. We incite…" But in the so-called "confession video" that    the CIA found in December, the Osama figure acts like the chief    conspirator. The fact that the video had been made for no    self-evident purpose except perhaps to be found by the Americans    should have raised suspicion. Its substance, the celebratory    affirmation of a responsibility for 9/11 that Osama had denied,    should also have weighed against the video's authenticity. Why    would he wait to indict himself until after U.S. forces and    allies had secured Afghanistan? But the CIA acted as if it had    caught Osama red-handed."
        http://spectator.org



Bio: http://www.claremont.org




 

Edward L. Peck 


      Edward L. Peck – Deputy Director of the White House Task  Force on Terrorism under President Ronald Reagan.  Former Deputy  Coordinator, Covert Intelligence Programs at the State Department. U.S. Ambassador  and Chief of Mission to Iraq  (1977 - 1980).  32-year veteran of the Foreign Service.
      
      
Signatory: Petition requesting a reinvestigation of 9/11:     
          "We want  truthful answers to question. …  As  Americans of conscience, we ask for four things:
          
An  immediate investigation by New York Attorney General Eliot Spitzer 
Immediate  investigation in Congressional Hearings. 
Media  attention to scrutinize and investigate the evidence. 
The  formation of a truly independent citizens-based inquiry." http://www.911truth.org/article 



 
Bio: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Edward_Peck







Morton Goulder 


      Morton Goulder (1921 - 2008) – Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense  for Intelligence and Warning under Presidents Nixon, Ford, and Carter (1973 - 1977). Served as Lt. Commander in the U.S. Navy.  Founder of Sanders Associates.
      
      
Signatory: Petition requesting a reinvestigation of 9/11:     
          "We want  truthful answers to question. …  As  Americans of conscience, we ask for four things: 

An  immediate investigation by New York Attorney General Eliot Spitzer 
Immediate  investigation in Congressional Hearings. 
Media  attention to scrutinize and investigate the evidence. 
The  formation of a truly independent citizens-based inquiry." http://www.911truth.org/article





 
 

Marcus Raskin, JD


      Marcus Raskin, JD  – Former member of the special staff of the National Security Council in  President Kennedy’s Administration.  Senior Fellow and Professor of Policy Studies, George Washington University.  Co-founder and Senior Fellow of the Institute for Policy Studies.  Advisor to the  Episcopal Urban Bishops.  Former member of the Presidential  Commission on Education and advisor to the Bureau of the Budget and the  Office of Science and Technology in the Executive Office of the  President.  Author, co-author and editor of more than 20 books on national security and domestic affairs, including The Four Freedoms under Siege: The Clear and Present Danger from Our National Security State (2006),  In Democracy's Shadow: The Secret World of National Security (2005), Liberalism (2003), Visions and Revisions: Reflections on Culture and Democracy at the End of the Century (1998), Abolishing the War System (1992), The Common Good: Its Politics, Policies, and Philosophy (1986), The Politics of National Security (1979).

Endorsement of The New Pearl Harbor: "This                     is an important, extraordinarily well-reasoned and provocative                     book that should be widely read. Griffin raises disturbing questions                     that deserve thoughtful and truthful answers from our government." http://personal.nbnet.nb.ca/sveniot/nph/



Bio: http://www.ips-dc.org/bios.htm#Marcus%20Raskin




 
 

Steve Pieczenik, MD, PhD 


Steve Pieczenik, MD, PhD – Served as Deputy Assistant Secretary of State under Presidents Richard Nixon, Gerald Ford, and Jimmy Carter and Senior Policy Planner under   Presidents Ronald Reagan and George H.W. Bush (41). Former Colonel, U.S. Army.

 Dr. Pieczenik trained in Psychiatry at Harvard and has both an MD from Cornell University Medical College and a PhD in International Relations from M.I.T. 

During his career as a senior State Department official, Dr. Pieczenik utilized his unique abilities and expertise to develop strategies and tactics that were instrumental in resolving major conflicts in Asia, the Middle East, Latin America, Europe and the United States.
        


Dr. Pieczenik was the principal International Crisis Manager and Hostage Negotiator under Secretaries of State Kissinger and Vance. During this time he developed conflict resolution techniques that were instrumental in saving over five hundred hostages in different terrorist episodes, including the Hanafi Moslem Seizure in Washington, DC, the TWA Croatian Hijacking, the Aldo Moro Kidnapping, the JRA Hijacking, the PLO Hijacking, and many other incidents involving terrorists such as Idi Amin, Muammar Quaddafi, Carlos, FARC, Abu Nidal and Saddam Hussein.



Dr. Pieczenik helped develop negotiation strategies for major U.S. - Soviet arms control summits under the Reagan administration. He was also involved in advising senior officials on important psycho-political dynamics and conflict mediation strategies for President Carter's successful Camp David Peace Conference. In 1991, Dr. Pieczenik was a chief architect of the Cambodian Peace Conference in Paris. He is currently an advisor to the Department of Defense.


Dr. Pieczenik is also a critically acclaimed author of psycho-political thrillers and the co-creator of the New York Times best-selling "Tom Clancy's Op-Center" and "Tom Clancy's Net Force" book series.  His novels are based on his twenty years experience in resolving international crises for four U.S. administrations.
      Other novels include: Terror Counter Terror (2007), My Beloved Talleyrand: The Life of a Scoundrel by His Last Mistress (co-authored with Roberta Rovner - Pieczenik 2005), 
        State of Emergency (1997), Pax Pacifica (1995), Maximum Vigilance (1994), Blood Heat (1989), 
        The Mind Palace (1987),
        Active Measures (as Alexander Court 2001), Active Pursuit (as Alexander Court 2002). Non-fiction works include: My Life is Great. Why Do I Feel So Awful? (1990).

        
Interviewed by Paul Joseph Watson on The Alex Jones Show  5/5/11:  

 "It's very rare to have a host like Alex Jones who had the bravery to bring me on ten years ago right after 9/11 when I pronounced not only was 9/11  a false flag and stand down operation which most Americans now realize, but at the same time, part of the whole scenario of the psyops war as that was created by Bush Junior and before that Clinton, quite frankly because he was involved, was the fact that Osama bin Laden had been diagnosed with Marfan syndrome... with a lifespan very short. ... And at the time that 9/11 occurred he was imminently dying and then by the time Tora Bora came in (December 2001), he was already dead. 
			
			
			
			... [at 1:00]
			        



			What's important to understand at this point, right now, for the public. We have been safe for over 30 to 40 years. Nothing and no one has ever attacked the United States. The only people who attacked the United States was George Bush, Cheney, and Rumsfeld. ... [at 10:50]
        


			But I didn't expect ten years later for another delusionary panderer called the President [Obama], a politician, whether you're a Republican or a Democrat, to continue this nonsensical story that we had been attacked by Muslims, which we hadn't been.  We were attacked by our own people in a false flag operation. ... [at 11:40] 
			        



			The issue at hand now is still more important. We have to stop this government and other governments from continuing to deceive, deny, and continuously manipulate the American public." [at 12:20]		  http://www.prisonplanet.com




Bio: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Steve_Pieczenik



Personal Website: http://www.stevepieczenik.com




 
 

Louis Freeh 


      Louis Freeh – Director of the FBI, 1993 - 2001.  Former U.S.  District Court Judge for the Southern District of New York, appointed by  President George H.W. Bush.  Former Deputy United States Attorney in New York. Former FBI agent. Former officer in the United States Army JAG Corps  Reserve.
      
      
Essay An Incomplete Investigation - Why did the 9/11 Commission ignore "Able Danger"? Wall Street Journal 11/17/05: "Even the most junior  investigator would immediately know that the name and photo ID of Atta in 2000  is precisely the kind of tactical intelligence the FBI has many times employed  to prevent attacks and arrest terrorists. Yet the 9/11 Commission inexplicably  concluded that it "was not historically significant." This astounding  conclusion--in combination with the failure to investigate Able Danger and incorporate  it into its findings--raises serious challenges to the commission's credibility  and, if the facts prove out, might just render the commission historically  insignificant itself. … No wonder the 9/11 families were outraged by these revelations and  called for a "new" commission to investigate." http://www.opin



Interview Lou Dobbs Tonight CNN 11/30/05: Regarding the Able Danger anti-terrorism data mining program. 

 Lou Dobbs: Why is there this reaction to what is called by more than half  of our congressmen and women, to open up and to allow our elected  representatives to know what happened? 

 Louis Freeh: Well, it's a  great question. I mean, the issue here, which was the issue when the  9/11 commission first responded to this, is they obviously missed  something. They obviously didn't consider what at least is a very  important allegation. 

 Their response to it, it was  historically insignificant. Historically insignificant that an  intelligence unit may have identified by name and photo, Mohamed Atta a  year before the 9/11 hijackings as a member of al Qaeda in the United  States. 

 Lou Dobbs: Tim Roemer, Slade Gorton, other members of the  9/11 commission have said they just had no hard evidence to deal with  here. How do you respond? 

 Louis Freeh:  I disagree with that. I was  a prosecutor and an FBI agent for many, many years. I deal in facts.  You have two witnesses. You have United States Naval Academy graduate, Captain Phillpott, you have Lieutenant Colonel Shaffer, an army  intelligence officer. These aren't data loaders, these are intelligence  experts who both have said, unequivocally, this unit identified  Mohammed Atta by name and possibly photo in mid 2000. 

 To say  that they don't have any documents to prove their case, these aren't  informants that we have to verify their credibility. We have  testimonial evidence, which, as a prosecutor, that's more potent  sometimes than documentary evidence. 

 Lou Dobbs: You were director  of the FBI until June of 2001. Were you ever aware of Able Danger? Was  the FBI ever given any reason to sense that there was some military  intelligence or military intelligence evidence or suggestion that there  would be an attack or some relationship to Mohamed Atta? 

 Louis Freeh: Absolutely not. Myself, but also my former colleagues and  current FBI colleagues, we read about this in the newspapers in August  of this year. And what is very significant here Lou -- which is a point  that has been made, and which I think you made -- we had officers at  Able Danger who made appointments, actually made appointments to go to  the FBI and share this intelligence in 2000 and those appointments  were canceled. 

 It had to be a very powerful stimulus, this  intelligence and information, to make these officers want to really  breach the chain of command and go directly to the FBI. We'd like to  know why those appointments were canceled." http://transcripts.cnn.com



Editor's note: The 9/11 Commission Report asserts that only three of the alleged hijackers were known to U.S. intelligence agencies prior to 9/11; Nawaf al-Hazmi, Salem al-Hazmi, and Khalid al-Mihdar.  There is no mention in the Report that the names and photographs of alleged hijacker Marwan al-Shehhi and alleged ring-leader Mohamed Atta had been identified by the Department of Defense antiterrorist program known as Able Danger more than a year prior to 9/11 and that they were known to be affiliates of al-Qaida. Able Danger also identified Nawaf al-Hazmi and Khalid al-Mihdar.  http://www.foxnews.com.  See also Rep. Curt Weldon, Lt. Col. Anthony Shaffer, Capt. Scott J. Phillpott, Major Erik Kleinsmith, and James D. Smith.



Bio: http://www.fbi.gov/libref/directors/freeh.htm




 
 

Vice President Walter Mondale  


      Vice President Walter Mondale  – 42nd Vice President of the United States 1977 - 1981. Democratic Party nominee for President  1984. U.S. Senator from Minnesota 1965 - 1977. Ambassador to Japan 1993 - 1996. 
      U.S. Army veteran.
      
Interviewed by Minnesota We Are C.H.A.N.G.E  2/3/08: 

 Question:  Would you support a new investigation into 9/11? 

 Vice President Mondale:  Yeah, because, "Why did it happen?" We need that phase two. They never did it. 

 Question:  All right!  

 Vice President Mondale:  Right.
http://www.youtube.com



Bio: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Walter_Mondale




 
 

Senator Mike Gravel 


      Senator Mike Gravel  – Former U.S. Senator from Alaska 1969 - 1980.  Candidate for the 2008 Democratic Presidential nomination.  Most
well known for entering over 4,000 pages of the Pentagon Papers into the U.S. Senate record, thus making public the secret
official study that revealed the lies and manipulations of successive
U.S. administrations that misled the country into the Vietnam War.  (See also Daniel Ellsberg.)  Also known for his   successful one-man filibuster for five months in 1971 that
forced the Nixon administration to cut a deal, effectively ending the draft (military conscription) in the United States.  Former Member, Alaska House of Representatives  1962-1966,   elected Speaker in 1965.   Former Counter-Intelligence officer, U.S. Army. Founder, The Democracy Foundation.  Author of Citizen Power: A People's Platform
   (1972), Pentagon Papers, In Four Volumes: The Defense Department History of United States Decisionmaking on Vietnam (1971), Jobs and More Jobs
   (1968).  Contributing author to 
   The Case for a Nuclear Moratorium
   (1974).
   
Member: Political Leaders for 9/11 Truth Association Statement: 

 "Scholars and professionals with various kinds of expertise---including  architects, engineers, firefighters, intelligence officers, lawyers,  medical professionals, military officers, philosophers, religious  leaders, physical scientists, and pilots---have spoken out about  radical discrepancies between the official account of the 9/11 attacks  and what they, as independent researchers, have learned. 

 They  have established beyond any reasonable doubt that the official account  of 9/11 is false and that, therefore, the official “investigations”  have really been cover-up operations. 

 Thus far, however, there  has been no response from political leaders in Washington or, for that  matter, in other capitals around the world. Our organization, Political  Leaders for 9/11 Truth, has been formed to help bring about such a  response. 

 We believe that the truth about 9/11 needs to be  exposed now---not in 50 years as a footnote in the history books---so  the policies that have been based on the Bush-Cheney administration’s  interpretation of the 9/11 attacks can be changed. 

 We are,  therefore, calling for a new, independent investigation of 9/11 that  takes account of evidence that has been documented by independent  researchers but thus far ignored by governments and the mainstream  media."



Video interview by Davis Fleetwood 7/23/07:



Question:  
        53% of the Americans in the New York Times / CBS [poll] think the government is lying to them about 9/11.  Why is that question not asked at these debates? 


Senator Gravel:  
        I don't know.  They don't want to ask it.  And I pledge to the people who are concerned about that, that should I become President, we're going to have a new investigation.   


Question:  Do we know the whole truth about 9/11? 


Senator Gravel:  Hell, no!    http://www.youtube.com


Video interview on INN World Report (New York) 2/15/08: 



Lenny Charles:  In New York, we have a ballot initiative coming forward.  They're collecting signatures from New York citizens to have a new 9/11 investigation.  And you've been asked to be a Commissioner if that investigation goes forward.  What are your thoughts on that? 


Senator Gravel:  I have told the leaders of this organization, Les Jamison and Dr. Pepper,  I would be honored to serve on that Commission.  And I hope the citizens of New York pass this initiative.  And I don't know if they'll be able to overcome the powers of the Federal government, but I tell you, if I become President of the United States, that Commission will be created in spades.
		           


		  We will have a Commission that will re-examine not only  what happened at 9/11 and post-9/11, but how -- re-examining all of the intelligence prior to 9/11 -- why the failure took place.  And they'll subpoena anybody and everybody and they'll put them under oath, starting from the President of the United States on down.  And if there's any perjury taking place or criminality is discovered, we'll prosecute them from the President on down  to the fullest extent of the law.  And if they go to jail, they go to jail.  
At about the 80% point in the video http://innworldreport.net


Endorser of and proposed Commissioner of a New Investigation into 9/11 as described in the New York City Ballot Initiative 11/08: "Petition to Create a NYC Independent Commission with Subpoena Power to Conduct a
          Comprehensive and Fact-Driven Investigation of All Relevant Aspects of the Tragic Events of
          September 11, 2001 and Issue a Report. 

 WHEREAS, many New York City voters believe that there remain many unanswered questions critical to establishing the truth
          about all relevant events leading up to, during and subsequent to the tragic attacks occurring on September 11, 2001 (“9/11”), and 

 WHEREAS, no prior investigation by any New York City agency or any other governmental entity has resulted in the citizens
          being provided with those critical answers or information necessary to establish the truth about those tragic events, ... 

 An independent, temporary New York City commission (the “Commission”) is hereby created to conduct a comprehensive, factdriven investigation into the events that took place on 9/11, as well as to thoroughly examine related events before and after the attacks, including any activities attempting to hide, cover up, impede or obstruct any investigation into these 9/11 events, following
          wherever the facts may lead. The Commission shall publish one or more reports of their findings." 



Presidential campaign website: http://www.gravel2008.us/

Bio: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mike_Gravel




 
 

Senator Lincoln Chafee


      Senator Lincoln Chafee   – U.S. Senator from Rhode Island 1999 - 2006.  Served on the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Government Affairs, the Committee on Foreign Relations, and the Committee on Environment and Public Works.  Currently a distinguished visiting fellow at Brown University's Watson Institute for International Studies.
      
Endorser of and proposed Commissioner of a New Investigation into 9/11 as described in the New York City Ballot Initiative 11/08: "Petition to Create a NYC Independent Commission with Subpoena Power to Conduct a
          Comprehensive and Fact-Driven Investigation of All Relevant Aspects of the Tragic Events of
          September 11, 2001 and Issue a Report. 

 WHEREAS, many New York City voters believe that there remain many unanswered questions critical to establishing the truth
          about all relevant events leading up to, during and subsequent to the tragic attacks occurring on September 11, 2001 (“9/11”), and 

 WHEREAS, no prior investigation by any New York City agency or any other governmental entity has resulted in the citizens
          being provided with those critical answers or information necessary to establish the truth about those tragic events, ... 

 An independent, temporary New York City commission (the “Commission”) is hereby created to conduct a comprehensive, factdriven investigation into the events that took place on 9/11, as well as to thoroughly examine related events before and after the attacks, including any activities attempting to hide, cover up, impede or obstruct any investigation into these 9/11 events, following
          wherever the facts may lead. The Commission shall publish one or more reports of their findings." 



Bio: http://bioguide.congress.gov




 
 

Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, JD


      Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, JD   – U.S. Senator from New York 2009 - present.  Appointed by Governor David Paterson on January 23, 2009, to fill the Senate seat vacated by Hillary Rodham Clinton, who had been appointed United States Secretary of State.  Member of Senate committees; Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, Committee on Environment and Public Works, Committee on Foreign Relations, Special Committee on Aging. Twice-elected member of the U.S. House of Representatives 2007 - 2009.
      Former Special Counsel to the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). 
      
Video interview by Manny Badillo, We Are Change: New York  5/30/09: 


Manny Badillo: Close to 8 years ago, I lost my loved one in the World Trade Center, Thomas Joseph Sgroi, the mentor of our family.  70% of  family members' questions were never answered during the Commission hearings. Just recently, Vice President Biden was handed a paper -- a study that was done -- that proves that there were explosives found in the debris of the World Trade Center. I'm asking you how you feel, given the fact that   family members, first responders, scientists, and even your colleagues feel that there should be a new and open investigation into what happened in New York City on 9/11; Do you support a new investigation into what happened?
		    


Senator Gillibrand: Well, based on what you just told me in that 70% of families' questions weren't answered, I think those questions should be answered. So if that means another review or a fuller hearing or more opportunities for the families I will support that because I do think it's important that every family member has every question answered.
			


Manny Badillo: Would your office accept the study to be able to take a look at the study and review?
			  


Senator Gillibrand: I will certainly look at the study and review it.  Absolutely.
			


Manny Badillo: And also there's the James Zadroga bill that's on the Senate floor right now. It's supporting the tens of thousands of sick and dying hero first responders that went in to rescue my uncle.
		    


Senator Gillibrand: I'm carrying that bill and I carry it from Senator Clinton -- Secretary Clinton -- and I'm working with Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney on the House side to actually pass a 9/11 health bill. It's really important that the first responders have the health care they need. 


Manny Badillo: One more question.  We have a petition that's taking place right in New York City to get on the November ballot the ability for New York City voters to decide whether or not to have that 9/11 investigation with subpoena power, privately funded. Do you support the efforts of over 40,000, so far, New York City residents in having the question whether or not to a 9/11 investigation in New York City on the November ballot?
		    


Senator Gillibrand: I would very much like to look at that issue because that sounds like something voters really should be part of the discussion.  Will you give me that information so I can review it?
http://www.youtube.com



Bio: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kirsten_Gillibrand




 
 

Senator Charles Schumer


      Senator Charles Schumer   – U.S. Senator from New York 1999 - present.  Chairman, Senate Committee on Rules and Administration. Member of the Judiciary Committee, the Finance Committee, and the Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee.  Vice Chairman of the Joint House - Senate Economic Committee. Former Congressman from New York 1981 - 1999.  Former Member of the New York State Assembly 1975 - 1980.
      Author of Positively American: Winning Back the Middle-Class Majority One Family   at a Time (2007). 
      
Article by Peter Duveen Sen. Schumer lends qualified support to a new 9-11 investigation 4/18/09:




"U.S. Senator Charles E.  Schumer (D-NY) said yesterday that while he was positively disposed  toward a new investigation into the events of 9-11, his support for  such a probe would depend on the form it would take. ...
		        




"I think it's not a bad idea," Schumer said. "You know, you've got to do it in a good way, but yes, I'd be for it."
		        




Schumer qualified his remarks by  noting that his support would depend upon the manner in which the  investigation was structured. "I'd have to see the parameters of the  investigation and all that," he said. He briefly mentioned "finding  body parts," which may have referred to the discovery in 2006 that the  roof of the Deutsche Bank building near the former site of the Twin  Towers of the World Trade Center was strewn with human remains from  9-11." http://www.petersnewyork.com



Bio: http://bioguide.congress.gov




 
 

 Senator Bob Graham 


      Senator Bob Graham – Former U.S. Senator from Florida 1987 - 2004.  Former Chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee.  Co-Chairman of the Joint House-Senate Select Committee on Intelligence (JICI) that investigated the events of 9/11.  Former Governor of Florida 1979 - 1986
      
      
Article Salon 9/8/04: "As the Senate Intelligence Committee chairman during the aftermath of the Sept. 11 attacks and the run-up        to the Iraq war, Sen. Bob Graham tried to expose what he came to believe were national security coverups and        manipulations by the Bush administration. But he discovered that it was hard to reveal a coverup playing by the        rules. Much of the evidence the Florida Democrat needed to buttress his arguments was being locked away, he        found, under the veil of politically motivated classification. ... 

 Question by Mary Jacoby: You write about the Bush administration's suppression of the joint House-Senate intelligence panel's          findings on Saudi Arabian links to 9/11. What exactly was suppressed, and why? 

 Bob Graham: In general terms it included the details of why we [on the committee] had raised suspicion that the Saudi        government and various representatives of Saudi interests had supported some of the hijackers -- and might have        supported all of them. My own personal conclusion was that the evidence of official Saudi support for at least        two of the terrorists in San Diego was, as one CIA agent said, incontrovertible. ... 

 The White House played a heavy role throughout        not only our investigation but the investigation of the 9/11 commission." http://dir.salon.com



Article Boston Globe 9/5/04: "Two of the Sept. 11, 2001, hijackers had a support network in the  United States that included agents of the Saudi government, and the  Bush administration and FBI blocked a congressional investigation into  that relationship, Senator Bob Graham wrote in a book to be released  Tuesday. 

 The discovery of the financial backing of the two  hijackers "would draw a direct line between the terrorists and the  government of Saudi Arabia, and trigger an attempted coverup by the  Bush administration," the Florida Democrat wrote. 

 And in Graham's  book, "Intelligence Matters," obtained by The Miami Herald yesterday,  he makes clear that some details of that financial support from Saudi  Arabia were in the 27 pages of the congressional inquiry's final report  that were blocked from release by the administration, despite the pleas  of leaders of both parties on the House and Senate intelligence  committees." http://www.boston.com



Editor's note: Despite the finding of the Joint House-Senate Select Intelligence Committee's 2002 Report (p.415) of "sources of foreign support for some of the September 11 hijackers", the 9/11 Commission Report (p. 172) states, "Similarly, we have seen no evidence that any foreign government -- or government official -- supplied any funding."  For more information on foreign support of the 9/11 hijackers,  see Congresswoman Cynthia McKinney, Major John Newman, William Bergman, and Michael Meacher.



Bio: http://bioguide.congress.gov...




 
 

Senator Mark Dayton 


      Senator Mark Dayton – Former U.S. Senator from Minnesota 2001 - 2006.  Member, Senate Committee on Armed Services and Senate Committee on Homeland  Security and Governmental Services.

      
Interviewed by Minnesota We Are C.H.A.N.G.E  2/3/08:



Question:  Do you support a new investigation into 9/11?
        


Senator Mark Dayton:  You know I'm not a Senator any more, but I would support one.
		


Question:  Personally?
		


Senator Mark Dayton:  Yeah, personally.
				


Question:  Excellent. Have you heard the evidence of a cover-up?
		


Senator Mark Dayton:  Nothing I would hear would surprise me.
		        
http://www.youtube.com



Senate Hearings on the 9/11 Commission Report 7/31/04: 



"They [NORAD] lied to the American  people, they lied to Congress and they lied to your 9/11 Commission. ... For almost three years now NORAD officials and FAA  officials have been able to hide their critical failures that left this country  defenseless during two of the worst hours in our history." http://www.911truth



Editor's note: On August 1, 2006, Thomas Kean, Chairman of the 9/11 Commission said, "We, to this day, don't know why NORAD [the North American Aerospace  Command] told us what they told us.  It was just so  far from the truth. ... It's one of those loose ends that never got  tied." Link  Despite the many public statements by  9/11 Commissioners and staff members acknowledging they were repeatedly lied to, not  a single person has ever been charged, tried, or even reprimanded for lying to  the 9/11 Commission.



Article Star Tribune 7/31/04: "Dayton, a former Minnesota state auditor, called  the FAA's and NORAD's failures "the most gross incompetence and  dereliction of responsibility and negligence that I've ever, under  those extreme circumstances, witnessed in the public sector." http://www.911readingroom.org



Bio: http://bioguide.congress.gov




 
 

Senator Patrick Leahy, JD


      Senator Patrick Leahy, JD  – U.S. Senator from Vermont 1974 - present.  Chairman, Judiciary Committee. Former Chairman, Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry.
      
Interviewed by Amy Goodman on Democracy Now 9/29/06:  


"For one thing, we would have been asking the questions about what's  been going on for six years. We've had a rubberstamp congress that  automatically has given the President anything he wants, because  nobody's asked questions. Nobody's asked the questions that are in the  Woodward book that's coming out this weekend, where you find all the  mistakes were made because they will acknowledge no mistakes. The  Republicans control both the House and the Senate. They will not call  hearings. They won't try to find out how did Halliburton walk off with  billions of dollars in cost overruns in Iraq. Why did the Bush  administration refuse to send the body armor our troops needed in Iraq?  Why did they send inferior material?
		          


And, of course, the two  questions that the Congress would not ask, because the Republicans  won't allow it, is, why did 9/11 happen on George Bush's watch when he  had clear warnings that it was going to happen? Why did they allow it  to happen? And secondly, when they had Osama bin Laden cornered, why  didn't they get him? Had there been an independent congress, one that  could ask questions, these questions would have been asked years ago." http://www.democracynow.org

 
Bio: http://bioguide.congress.gov




 
 

Gov. Walter Peterson 


      Gov. Walter Peterson  – 81st Governor of New Hampshire 1969 - 1973.  Former Member of the New Hampshire House of Representatives, serving as   Majority Leader 1963 - 1964 and as Speaker 1965 - 1968. After government experience served as President, Franklin Pierce College (20 years) and as Trustee of the University System of New   Hampshire (12 years). U.S. Navy Veteran, World War II.
      
Article "9/11 Effort to Go On in Peterborough NH" Monadnock Ledger-Transcript 5/13/10: 


 
		  "Their   petition article failed at the polls Tuesday, but the eight   Peterborough members of the Monadnock 9/11 Truth Alliance say they are   not backing down.		
		

 

          “We   are delighted that about a third of the people think this was something   worth looking into,” Karin Wells said. “We will continue to educate and   tell people. ... It’s swimming upstream. It’s so hard.”		
		

 

          The petition article on Tuesday’s   Town Meeting ballot asked voters to send a message to the government by   asking the town to instruct the state Congressional Delegation to pursue   a new and independent investigation to address thoroughly all of the   evidence and unanswered questions related to the events of Sept. 11   2001. ... 
		
		

 
          “We’re pleased that Gov. [Walter] Peterson is among   our ranks. We think that it’s an indicator of how more and more   politicians are realizing the weight of this issue,” Jay Iselin said.		
		

 

          Peterson, who signed the petition,   told the Monadnock Ledger-Transcript yesterday that he did not expect   the petition article to pass, but that asking questions when you have   doubts is always the right thing to do.		
		

 

          “You should question some things if they don’t   make sense,” he said. “I don’t think it’s unpatriotic.”		
		

 

          Peterson said   both he and his wife, Dorothy, decided to support the petition article   after watching one of the videos of the collapse of the Twin Towers,   which he said looks like a controlled demolition to them. “That raised   questions because that’s not how a building would fall if it was   attacked,” Peterson said. “Both Dorothy and I had viewed the video and   there were certainly a lot of serious questions raised about what   happened there.”		
		

 

          “Most people don’t want to bother. But I think if   you raise a question, if you really have a doubt, you should say it,”   Peterson said." http://nhtruth.blogspot.com

 
Bio: http://www.nh.gov




 
 

Gov. Jesse Ventura


      Gov. Jesse Ventura – 38th Governor of Minnesota 1999 - 2003.  Member, U.S. Navy Underwater Demolition Team 12 (precursor to SEAL) 1969 - 1975. U.S. Navy Reserves, SEAL Team 1.
      
      Former professional wrestler and actor. The Running Man (1987), Predator (1987). 
      Author or co-author of I Ain't Got Time to Bleed: Reworking the Body Politic from the Bottom up (2000), Quotations of Chairman Jesse (2000), Do I Stand Alone?: Going to the Mat Against Political Pawns and Media Jackals (2001), Jesse Ventura Tells It Like It Is: America's Most Outspoken Governor Speaks Out About Government (2002), The New Prohibition: Voices of Dissent Challenge the Drug War (2004).
      
Member: Political Leaders for 9/11 Truth Association Statement: 

 "Scholars and professionals with various kinds of expertise---including  architects, engineers, firefighters, intelligence officers, lawyers,  medical professionals, military officers, philosophers, religious  leaders, physical scientists, and pilots---have spoken out about  radical discrepancies between the official account of the 9/11 attacks  and what they, as independent researchers, have learned. 

 They  have established beyond any reasonable doubt that the official account  of 9/11 is false and that, therefore, the official “investigations”  have really been cover-up operations. 

 Thus far, however, there  has been no response from political leaders in Washington or, for that  matter, in other capitals around the world. Our organization, Political  Leaders for 9/11 Truth, has been formed to help bring about such a  response. 

 We believe that the truth about 9/11 needs to be  exposed now---not in 50 years as a footnote in the history books---so  the policies that have been based on the Bush-Cheney administration’s  interpretation of the 9/11 attacks can be changed. 

 We are,  therefore, calling for a new, independent investigation of 9/11 that  takes account of evidence that has been documented by independent  researchers but thus far ignored by governments and the mainstream  media."



Interviewed on The Alex Jones Show 4/2/08:


 "Appearing on The Alex Jones Show, Ventura           said that his initial reaction to 9/11 was much like most people at the           time, and he accepted the official story outright, a response he now regrets           because he was in a position of power and could have used it to raise           a lot of pointed questions. 
			
		  

 "I kicked myself when it initially           happened that the light didn't go off but I was so shocked that this thing           had even taken place that I apologize for not being more aware,"           said Ventura, adding that watching Loose Change at the insistence of his           son was part of the catalyst for his wake up call. 			
			

 
Host Alex Jones is executive producer of           Loose Change (get           it here), the most watched Internet movie of all time. Ventura said           he ran through a rollercoaster of emotions when he saw the film. 			
			

 "When I finally did watch it I went           through every emotion you could imagine, from laughing, crying, getting           sick to my stomach, to the whole emotional thing," said the former           Governor. 

 "To me questions haven't been answered           and are not being answered about 9/11," said Ventura, before highlighting           the collapse of Building 7, a 47-story tall skyscraper that was not hit           by a plane but collapsed in its own footprint in the late afternoon of           September 11. 

 "Two planes struck two buildings .... but           how is it that a third building fell 5 hours later?" asked Ventura,           "How could this building just implode into its own footprint 5 hours           later - that's my first question - the 9/11 Commission didn't even devote           one page to that in their big volume of investigation," added the           former Governor. 

 

Ventura then explored how it was possible           that all three buildings could rapidly collapse at almost free fall speed. 			
			

 "How could those buildings fall at           the speed of gravity - if you put a stopwatch on them, both of those World           Trade Center buildings were on the ground in ten seconds - how can that           be?" asked Ventura. 

 "If you took a billiard ball and dropped           it from the height of the World Trade Center in a vacuum it would hit           the ground in 9.3 seconds and if you took that same billiard ball and           dropped it 10 stories at a time and merely stopped it and started it it           would take 30 seconds - if you dropped it every floor of the World Trade           Center to the ground, simply stopping and starting it on gravity it would           take over 100 seconds to reach the ground," he surmised. 

 
Having undergone Basic Underwater Demolition           Seal training, Ventura is speaking from an experienced standpoint and           he unequivocally stated that he thought the buildings were deliberately           imploded.			
			

 "Upon looking at the film in super-slow           motion and the way the buildings fell and comparing that to the way that           they do like a controlled demolition of a hotel in Las Vegas, they both           fell identical."			
			

 "I did watch the film of Building 7           going down and in my opinion there's no doubt that that building was brought           down with demolition," said the former Governor. 

 
Ventura also questioned the lack of wreckage           outside of the Pentagon after Flight 77 allegedly struck the building. 			
		  

 "When I was watching Loose Change with           a friend of mine - he happens to work for a company that helps build the           Boeing airplanes and they said that when the engines completely disappeared           and were destroyed, his response was, excuse my French - bullshit!,"           said Ventura. 

 "I turned to him and said why and he           said because they're made of titanium steel - they can't disintegrate." http://prisonplanet.com



Video interview The Alex Jones Show 9/26/06: "The thing I question on 9/11 was simply the fact; where were our planes?  When all this was going on and planes were being hijacked an hour apart and there were four of them  They cover about a six-hour space.  At no time, to my knowledge, did we have any fighter planes up in the air.  Why? ... 

 In light of the fact that there was a cover-up that got us into the Viet Nam war and there was, in my opinion, a cover-up of John Kennedy's assassination, I would just say that I don't believe it's beyond reason to not at least consider that the government certainly would do things like that." http://www.infowars.com/articles



Interview Black Op Radio 8/20/04: "At first, again, I wanted to believe 9/11, you know. But the problem I  have with 9/11 is just a real simple one. I'm trying to figure out --  and of course they're now attempting to answer it somewhat -- how we  could have failed so miserably in not having air defense. ... 

 And the problem I have with 9/11 is that. Where the heck was our  defense? Who was sleeping at the wheel? While all of these planes... I  mean, I've been to air traffic control when I was Governor, and you've  got a dozen people there looking at these dials, watching every plane  in their sector. They know where it's going and they know what  direction it's supposed to be going 

 Now, how is it that these  planes were able to be hijacked at half hour intervals, turned directly  opposite the way they're supposed to be going and no bells went off, no  emergency sirens went off, no fighter jets were scrambled? Just what  the hell happened in that area of time?! And that's the part that  troubles me about 9/11. ... 

 I mean here's the Pentagon, the head of our military. How was this plane able  to circle the city of Baltimore [sic] at least  once, picking out a target, and then drive into it, and we didn't have  -- nothing up in the air? There wasn't one scrambled fighter jet up  there to defend in any way, shape, or form?" http://www.libertypost.org 



Bio: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jesse_Ventura




 

Ramsey Clark, MA, JD 


      Ramsey Clark, MA, JD  – 66th United States Attorney General 1967 - 1969. Also served in the Department of Justice as the Assistant Attorney General of the Lands Division 1961 - 1965, and as Deputy Attorney General 1965 - 1967. Son of United States Supreme Court Justice Tom Clark.
      Veteran, U.S. Marine Corps.
      
Article Has Truth Been Told About 9/11? by Saeed Shabazz at TheFinalCall.com 9/28/10:

 "After President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad spoke before world leaders and   the international press at the 65th Session of the UN General Assembly,   an uproar followed and the United States expressed outrage at his   remarks.        


The U.S. media widely reported that the Iranian president accused the   U.S. government of killing U.S. citizens in an attack on the World Trade   Center in New York on the fateful day of Sept. 11, 2001.        


But the world leader's question and message were much   more nuanced and important than that—his core assertion was that a   horrible attack that killed some 3,000 people and the U.S. response   changed the world ...
        



            President Ahmadinejad argued the changes in the world were so tremendous   that the United Nations should be allowed to explore what happened on   Sept. 11. ... 
        


Still Mr. Ahmadinejad was mocked by most mainstream American news   organizations, but not everyone accepts the "crackpot idea"   characterization. Many believe a full and complete investigation of 9-11   is still needed.        


"The truth is the truth regardless of the messenger; and the truth of   the matter is that what really happened on September 11, 2001 is an   issue that people cannot run away from," said Ramsey Clark, a former   U.S. attorney general and co-founder of the International Action Center   and founder of IndictBush.org.         


"I don't think you can reject the issue because of the messenger,"   Mr. Clark added. "History does require that the facts have a proper   review." http://www.finalcall.com 



Bio: http://www.justice.gov/ag/aghistpage.php?id=65




 
 

Congressman  Ron Paul, MD


      Congressman Ron Paul, MD – 9-term Congressman from Texas, 1979 - 1985, 1997 - present.  Candidate for the 2008 Republican Presidential nomination.  Member of the House  Financial Services Committee, the International Relations committee,  and the  Joint Economic Committee.  On the Financial Services Committee, he serves as the Vice Chairman of the Oversight and Investigations  subcommittee. 1988 Libertarian Party candidate for President.  Physician.  Former Flight Surgeon, U.S. Air Force. 
      
      
Audio interview The Alex Jones Show 1/18/07: "Dr. Ron Paul, Texas Congressman exploring a run for President, appeared on The Alex Jones Show Wednesday and had the following to say about 9/11: 

 Caller: I want a complete, impartial, and totally independent investigation of  the events of September 11, 2001 . I'm tired of this bogus garbage  about terrorism. Ask Michael Meacher about how he feels about this  bogus war on terrorism. Can you comment on that please? 

		  
Congressman Paul: Well, that would be nice to have.  Unfortunately, we don't  have that in place. It will be a little bit better now with the  Democrats now in charge of oversight. But you know, for top level  policy there's not a whole lot of difference between the two policies  so a real investigation isn't going to happen. But I think we have to  keep pushing for it. And like you and others, we see the investigations  that have been done so far as more or less cover-up and no real  explanation of what went on." http://www.total911.info



Radio interview on Wake Up America with Pat Gorman 6/21/07:  In response to a caller's question about the 9/11 investigation.
		  

Congressman Paul:  Well, I think he was asking about, you know, who ultimately is to blame and whether or not it deserves more investigation.  There was one investigation.  They spent a lot of money and very extensive and I think he indicated that they didn't even mention the third building that went down (WTC Building 7).
		  


          Government investigations, as a general rule, aren't very good because when the government does it, they generally protect the government.  And whether it's investigating 9/11, or, you know, Ruby Ridge, or Waco, they tend more to be coverups than anything else.
		  


          The truth is I don't know exactly all that transpired.  I don't know if anybody knows the absolute truth, but there's reason to be very suspect of what's happened.  And I am convinced that the 9/11 Commission Report did ignore some very, very important things like the third building, as well as why did those numerous Arabs from Saudi Arabia with the  name of bin Laden get to go home when none of us were allowed on airplanes. That always amazed me, as well,  especially since the 15 out of 19 came from Saudi Arabia.   And then they turn around and they use this as an excuse to go into Iraq.  So, you know the whole thing, whether it's strictly  9/11 but it's the repercussions from 9/11 that led to the useless and needless war, that all needs looked into just for the sake of the future of our country. ...
		  


Pat Gorman:  It seems that we've got this propaganda machine  that has just started to really blow up and being out of control.  Like, you know, tell them whatever we want them to hear.  Don't tell them the truth. ...
		  


Congressman Paul:  Yeah and I think that's true.  The only way that can work is you have to terrorize the people, our people, in a different way than, you know, what terrorism is really is all about, but we terrorize them by building up tremendous fear.   You know, "If you don't do something, if you don't give up your liberties and if you don't invade this country, we're all going to be blown up." You know, so they have to terrorize us and build great fear that something terrible is going to happen to our country unless we sacrifice our liberties and go to war."  http://media.putfile.com 

Editor's note: WTC Building 7 was 610 feet tall, 47 stories.  It would have been the tallest building in 33 states.  Although it was not hit by an airplane, it  completely collapsed into a pile of rubble in less than 7 seconds at 5:20 p.m. on 9/11, seven hours after the collapses of the Twin Towers.  However, no mention of its collapse appears in the 9/11 Commission's "full and complete account of the circumstances surrounding the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks."  Watch the collapse video here.  And six years after 9/11, the Federal government has yet to publish its promised final report that explains the cause of its collapse.



Website: http://ronpaul2008.com/



Bio: http://www.house.gov/paul/bio.shtml




 
 

Congressman Dennis Kucinich


      Congressman Dennis Kucinich – 6-term Congressman from Ohio.  Former mayor of Cleveland.  Candidate for the 2008 Democratic Presidential nomination.  Chairman of the Domestic Policy Subcommittee of the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. Member, Committee on Education and Labor.  2003 recipient of the Gandhi Peace Award.
      
      
Video 6/10/07:  "Some time in September, at a date that will be as appropriate as possible, we're going to be holding what will be the first hearing in the Congress on two discrete issues relating to 9/11.  They have to do with financial issues." http://www.youtube.com/

Video interview with Justin A. Martell of Student Scholars for 9/11 Truth 4/5/07: 

 Justin A. Martell: Would you in any way maybe address the 9/11 Truth Movement? 
		  
Congressman Kucinich: First of all, you have to understand that all over the country  people are concerned about whether or not they've been told the truth  about 9/11.  And the way that the administration handled 9/11, taking us  into a war against Iraq that had nothing to do with 9/11,  deepened  people's suspicions about the possibility there may have been a  cover-up.  Because, why would the government lie about a cause for war?   And so, what I'm saying is that I respect the concerns people have  about whether they've been told the truth or not. 

 Because I want to be President of the United States, I know  that unless you address that lack of trust, you're not going to be able  to successfully lead a nation.  And I want to be quite specific about  this.  It's my intention as Chairman of the Domestic Policy Subcommittee  to focus in on two areas that I've -- there are a number of areas,  probably dozens of areas that haven't been appropriately probed -- but I  know of two, that I'm looking at.  I'm not at liberty to discuss exactly  what they are, but our committee will hold hearings on two discreet  areas that have major implications with respect to the story that  Americans have been told about 9/11." http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VIS6UJ8kRlY



Article Times Union 3/26/07: "Presidential candidate Dennis Kucinich predicted Sunday that by the  time the New Hampshire primary arrives early next year, so many  Americans will have tired of the war in Iraq that his peace platform  will make him the choice for the Democratic nomination. ... 

 He also said that as chairman of a House subcommittee on domestic  policy, he plans to launch an investigation of   "a narrow portion" of  the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.  He offered few details, but said  his subcommittee would be looking at "a few, specific discrepancies in  the public record."  The 9/11 Commission that published its final report  in 2004 never resolved some conflicting facts, Kucinich said.  He  announced his own look at 9/11 in answer to a question from an audience  member.  The man complained that the 9/11 Commission was too tied to the  Bush administration to offer an unbiased report, and Kucinich agreed." http://timesunion.com



Bio: http://kucinich.house.gov/Biography/




 
 

Congressman  Curt Weldon 

 
      Congressman  Curt Weldon – Former 10-term Congressman from Pennsylvania 1987 - 2006.  Former Vice Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee.  Former Vice  Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee.
      
      
Article Fox News 8/28/05: Regarding the 9/11 Commission "There's something very sinister going on here that really  troubles me," Weldon told FOX News on Thursday, blasting the Sept. 11 commission for not taking the  claims more seriously. He said some panel members were trying to smear [Lt. Col. Anthony] Shaffer and Able Danger.  "What's the Sept.  11 commission got to hide?" Weldon asked." http://www.foxnews.com



Press conference transcript 9/17/05: Regarding the 9/11 Commission  Report   "There's something wrong here, something tragically wrong.  The American people, the families, the  country and the Congress need to know the truth, the whole truth, the complete  truth. And so far we haven't gotten it. … Somebody's got to connect the dots  and answer the questions. If the 9/11 Commission won't do it, then Congress has  to do it." http://www.gl



Speech on the floor of Congress 10/19/05: "I am not a conspiracy theorist, but there is something desperately  wrong, Mr. Speaker. There is something outrageous at work here. This is  not a third-rate burglary of a political campaign headquarters. This  involved what is right now the covering up of information that led to  the deaths of 3,000 people, changed the course of history, led to the  invasion of Iraq and Afghanistan, and has disrupted our country, our  economy and people's lives." http://frwebgate



Editor's note: The 9/11 Commission Report asserts that only three of the alleged hijackers were known to U.S. intelligence agencies prior to 9/11; Nawaf al-Hazmi, Salem al-Hazmi, and Khalid al-Mihdar.  There is no mention in the Report that the names and photographs of alleged hijacker Marwan al-Shehhi and alleged ring-leader Mohamed Atta had been identified by the Department of Defense antiterrorist program known as Able Danger more than a year prior to 9/11 and that they were known to be affiliates of al-Qaida. Able Danger also identified Nawaf al-Hazmi and Khalid al-Mihdar.  http://www.foxnews.com.  See also Louis Freeh, Lt. Col. Anthony Shaffer, Cap. Scott J. Phillpott, Major Erik Kleinsmith, and James D. Smith.



Bio: http://www.montcogop.org




 
 

 Congresswoman  Cynthia McKinney


      Congresswoman  Cynthia McKinney – Former 6-term Congresswoman from Georgia 1993 - 2002, 2005 - 2006.  Member of the House Armed Services Committee and Member of the International Relations Committee.  Georgia state legislator 1988 - 1992.
      
      
Member: Political Leaders for 9/11 Truth Association Statement: 

 "Scholars and professionals with various kinds of expertise---including  architects, engineers, firefighters, intelligence officers, lawyers,  medical professionals, military officers, philosophers, religious  leaders, physical scientists, and pilots---have spoken out about  radical discrepancies between the official account of the 9/11 attacks  and what they, as independent researchers, have learned. 

 They  have established beyond any reasonable doubt that the official account  of 9/11 is false and that, therefore, the official “investigations”  have really been cover-up operations. 

 Thus far, however, there  has been no response from political leaders in Washington or, for that  matter, in other capitals around the world. Our organization, Political  Leaders for 9/11 Truth, has been formed to help bring about such a  response. 

 We believe that the truth about 9/11 needs to be  exposed now---not in 50 years as a footnote in the history books---so  the policies that have been based on the Bush-Cheney administration’s  interpretation of the 9/11 attacks can be changed. 

 We are,  therefore, calling for a new, independent investigation of 9/11 that  takes account of evidence that has been documented by independent  researchers but thus far ignored by governments and the mainstream  media."



Congressional Briefing 7/22/05: "Within  days of the attacks, we were told that the perpetrators were from a  terrorist network known as al-Qaeda. When reporters and members of the  public asked for details, then Secretary of State Colin Powell promised  that it would be made all clear to the world in a White Paper. 

 Nearly  4 years, and 2 wars later, we still have no official statement from the  Bush administration on the specifics of who did it, who aided and  financed them or what their origins are. 

 For the families who  suffered so much loss this surely feels like adding insult to injury.  They deserve to know everything that there is to be known about how  their loved ones died. They fought for an investigation that would be  non-partisan, independent, and that would get to the bottom of things.  But, as work got underway, not only did the Commission run up against  obstruction by the administration and non-cooperation from government  agencies, many, if not most of the commissioners themselves had  conflicts of interest. 

 And several commissioners spoke out about  problems in the process; the lack of investigative rigor and heavy  reliance on previous work; the Joint-Commission Report, the drafting of  recommendations before the investigative process got rolling, the  failure to take testimony under oath or in many cases to even take  transcripts. ... 

 Then last year, we got the final  report. An extensive, prosaically impressive report. But as some of us  sat down to read it, the errors and omissions immediately jumped out at  us. 

 How was it that it took over an hour after the first  transponder went off before planes were scrambled to meet the threat?  All of them too late. 

 What happened to those reports that  surfaced within months of September 11th stating that 7 or more of the  alleged hijackers had come forward and claimed that they were victims  of stolen identities ...? Why did the Commission choose not even to address  this? 

 What about the terrorist Omar Said Sheikh? ... According to Indian  intelligence, this man received orders from a Pakistani General to  transfer $100,000 to Mohammed Atta. People all over the world are  talking about this story. But not a word about it in the Report. 

 What  about Osama bin Laden and his role in the Mujahadin backed by the CIA  in the 1980’s to fight the Soviets? The Commission didn't go there." http://www.911readingroom.org



Editor's note: Despite the finding of the Joint House-Senate Select Intelligence Committee's 2002 Report (p.415) of "sources of foreign support for some of the September 11 hijackers", the 9/11 Commission Report (p. 172) states, "Similarly, we have seen no evidence that any foreign government -- or government official -- supplied any funding."  For more information on Omar Said Sheikh and foreign support of the 9/11 hijackers,  see Senator Bob Graham, Major John Newman, William Bergman, and Michael Meacher.



Signatory: Petition requesting a reinvestigation of 9/11:     
          "We want  truthful answers to question. …  As  Americans of conscience, we ask for four things:
          
An  immediate investigation by New York Attorney General Eliot Spitzer 
Immediate  investigation in Congressional Hearings. 
Media  attention to scrutinize and investigate the evidence. 
The  formation of a truly independent citizens-based inquiry." http://www.911truth.org/article 





Bio: http://www.ratical.org/co-globalize/CynthiaMcKinney




 
 

Congressman Merrill Cook, MBA 


      Congressman Merrill Cook, MBA  – Former 2-term Congressman from Utah, 1997 - 2001.
      Served on the House of Representatives Banking Committee, its Financial Institutions Subcommittee and   Capital Markets Subcommittee.
      Also served on the House Transportation and Science Committees. Formerly Founder and CEO of a mining explosives company (25 years).  Previously a financial analyst, budget analyst, and management consultant with Arthur D. Little.
      
Conversation with We Are Change - Utah 5/26/10:

 Regarding 9/11:  "I think there are some questions that have not been satisfactorily answered by the Federal investigators -- the official government -- the Commission, and so forth.  For example Building 7 still hasn't been explained. In fact they really haven't come up with  an official -- they've come up with some tentative things regarding the building.
		  


          I'm also concerned that Federal aviation irregularities on that day have not really been fully investigated.
		  


          It has not been unheard of to have rogue elements within government offices doing things. And they need to be fully investigated. I just want to know the truth. And I'm not starting this with any bias. It's not as though I want to find something really awfully horribly wrong. I just want to settle a couple of questions that are still out there. And those two, I think, are really out there. ...
		  


           They have not even done an investigation on these FAA irregularities or even the Building 7 thing that is at all worthy. So it's not a matter of a new investigation. ...
	      


         But Building 7 and the FAA irregularities have not been explained.  Now if they don't explain those pretty soon, then you have to get a little deeper on things. ...
 		  


         So those things are a concern. Now I just hope
         that it happened the way they said, but we have not yet put that entirely to bed." http://www.youtube.com/watch



Editor's note: WTC Building 7 was 610 feet tall, 47 stories.  It would have been the tallest building in 33 states.  Although it was not hit by an airplane, it  completely collapsed into a pile of rubble in less than 7 seconds at 5:20 p.m. on 9/11, seven hours after the collapses of the Twin Towers.  However, no mention of its collapse appears in the 9/11 Commission's "full and complete account of the circumstances surrounding the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks."  Watch the collapse video here.  And six years after 9/11, the Federal government has yet to publish its promised final report that explains the cause of its collapse.
        


Website: http://merrillcookforsenate.com




 

Congressman Dan Hamburg, MA 


      Congressman Dan Hamburg, MA  – Former Congressman from California, 1993 - 1995.  Author, Headwaters Forest Act.  Green Party candidate for Governor of California 1998.  Currently Executive Director, Voice of the Environment.
        
Member: Political Leaders for 9/11 Truth Association Statement: 

 "Scholars and professionals with various kinds of expertise---including  architects, engineers, firefighters, intelligence officers, lawyers,  medical professionals, military officers, philosophers, religious  leaders, physical scientists, and pilots---have spoken out about  radical discrepancies between the official account of the 9/11 attacks  and what they, as independent researchers, have learned. 

 They  have established beyond any reasonable doubt that the official account  of 9/11 is false and that, therefore, the official “investigations”  have really been cover-up operations. 

 Thus far, however, there  has been no response from political leaders in Washington or, for that  matter, in other capitals around the world. Our organization, Political  Leaders for 9/11 Truth, has been formed to help bring about such a  response. 

 We believe that the truth about 9/11 needs to be  exposed now---not in 50 years as a footnote in the history books---so  the policies that have been based on the Bush-Cheney administration’s  interpretation of the 9/11 attacks can be changed. 

 We are,  therefore, calling for a new, independent investigation of 9/11 that  takes account of evidence that has been documented by independent  researchers but thus far ignored by governments and the mainstream  media."



Member:  Scholars for 9/11 Truth and Justice   Association Statement: "Scholars for 9/11 Truth and Justice is a non-partisan organization consisting  of independent researchers and activists engaged  in uncovering the true nature of the September 11, 2001 attacks."



Bio: http://www.voiceoftheenvironment.org/about/#hamburg




 
 

Norm Mineta


      Norm Mineta – U.S. Secretary of Transportation 2001 - 2006.  U.S. Secretary of Commerce 2000 - 2001.  Senior Vice President, Lockheed Martin 1995 - 2000.  Former 12-term Congressman from California 1971 - 1995.  Currently, Vice Chairman of the Board, Hill & Knowlton.
      
      
9/11 Commission testimony 5/23/03: 

 Lee Hamilton: We thank you for that. I wanted to
          focus just a moment on the Presidential Emergency Operating
          Center [PEOC]. You were there for a good part of the day. I think you
          were there with the vice president. And when you had that order
          given, I think it was by the president, that authorized the
          shooting down of commercial aircraft that were suspected to be
          controlled by terrorists, were you there when that order was
          given? 

 Norm  Mineta: No, I was not. I was made aware of it
          during the time that the airplane coming into the Pentagon.
          There was a young man who had come in and said to the vice
          president, "The plane is 50 miles out. The plane is 30 miles
          out." And when it got down to, "The plane is 10 miles out," the
          young man also said to the vice president, "Do the orders still
          stand?" And the vice president turned and whipped his neck
          around and said, "Of course the orders still stand. Have you
          heard anything to the contrary?" Well, at the time I didn't know
          what all that meant. And -- 

 Lee  Hamilton: The flight you're referring to is the -- 

 Norm Mineta: The flight that came into the Pentagon. ...
http://www.youtube.com


 Norm Mineta: I didn't know about the order to shoot
        down. I arrived at the PEOC at about 9:20 a.m. And the
        president was in Florida, and I believe he was on his way to
        Louisiana at that point when the conversation that went on
        between the vice president and the president and the staff that
        the president had with him. 

 Tim Roemer: So when you arrived at 9:20 [at the Presidential Emergency Operating
        Center in the White House], how much
        longer was it before you overheard the conversation between the
        young man and the vice president saying, "Does the order still
        stand?" 

 Norm Mineta: Probably about five or six minutes. 

 Tim Roemer: So about 9:25 or 9:26. And your inference
        was that the vice president snapped his head around and said,
        "Yes, the order still stands." Why did you infer that that was
        a shoot-down? http://www.youtube.com
 

Editor's note: Secretary Mineta's testimony  directly contradicts the 9/11 Commission Report on two key points and it is entirely omitted from the 9/11 Commission Report. 

 1. Mr. Mineta testified he arrived at the Presidential Emergency Operations Center (PEOC) in the White House at 9:20 a.m. and observed Vice President Dick Cheney discussing with an aide that the incoming Flight 77 was 50 miles out at 9:25 or 9:26.  The 9/11 Commission Report maintains Vice President Cheney did not arrive at the PEOC until 9:58, over one-half hour later.  Mr. Mineta's testimony is further supported by the fact that Flight 77 crashed into the Pentagon at 9:37, which is the correct time it would have taken Flight 77 to arrive at the Pentagon, if it had been about 50 miles out at 9:26. 

 2. The Commission Report maintains the government did not know the whereabouts of Flight 77  prior to 9:32, when Dulles Tower air controllers "observed a primary radar target tracking eastbound at a high rate of speed".  Mr. Mineta's testimony reveals Vice President Cheney was being informed of the plane's position for several minutes before that, and perhaps considerably longer. 

 Also of interest, is that the first approximately 15 minutes  of  Mr. Mineta's testimony before the Commission during which he discusses the points mentioned above, have been edited out of the official 9/11 Commission video archives (Panel 1, Friday, May 23. 2003).  However, his full testimony does appear in the written transcript. 



Bio: http://www.nndb.com/people/649/000024577/




 
 

Joseph C. Wilson IV 


      Joseph C. Wilson IV  – Retired diplomat of the U.S. Foreign Service, specializing in Africa.  Rose to the position of Special Assistant to President Bill Clinton and Senior Director for African Affairs, National Security Council.  Former Political Adviser to Commander in Chief, U.S. Armed Forces, Europe.  Former U.S. Ambassador to Gabon and São Tomé and Príncipe.  Acting ambassador to Baghdad when             Iraq invaded Kuwait in 1990.  22-year Foreign Service career 1976 - 1998.  In February 2002, he investigated reports             of Iraq’s attempt to buy uranium from Niger for the George W. Bush administration.  Husband of Valerie Plame, a covert CIA operative, specializing in weapons of mass destruction, whose identity was revealed to reporters by members of the Bush administration.  In October 2003, Wilson             received the Ron Ridenhour Prize for Truth-Telling from the Fertel Foundation             and the Nation Institute.
      
      
Interview with Citizens for Legitimate Government 7/6/05: 

 CLG: I can't let this moment pass without asking you about 9/11             and the Bush Administration. Do you notice any oddities about how the             Bush Administration handled the events, the aftermath or the investigation             of 9/11? Do you see any holes in the government's explanation of events? 

  Joseph Wilson: I have             obviously followed the inquiries into 9/11 and I know Dick Clarke and             Rand Beers very well but I am not an expert.  I look to the "Jersey Girls"             [Kristen Breitweiser, Patty Casazza, Lorie Van Auken, and Mindy Kleinberg] who have so assiduously pushed the case in the memory of their late             husbands, for real understanding. I have great admiration for them and             for what they have done. They are not satisfied, so neither am I.  http://www.legitgov.org



Bio: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Joseph_C._Wilson




 
 

Morgan Reynolds, PhD 


      Morgan Reynolds, PhD – Chief Economist, U.S. Department of Labor under George  W. Bush 2001 - 2002.  Former Director of  the Criminal Justice  Center at the National Center  for Policy Analysis.  Professor Emeritus,  Economics, Texas A&M University.
      
      Contributing author to 9/11 and American Empire (Vol I) – Intellectuals Speak Out (2006).

Video interview with Alex Jones 6/2/06: "I first  began to suspect that 9/11 was in inside job when the Bush-Cheney  Administration invaded Iraq.  … We can prove that the government’s story is false."  http://video.goo



Essay 6/9/05: "It  is hard to exaggerate the importance of a scientific debate over the cause(s)  of the collapse of the twin towers [each 1300+ feet tall, 110 stories] and building 7. If the official wisdom on  the collapses is wrong, as I believe it is, then policy based on such erroneous  engineering analysis is not likely [to] prove to be sound."  http://www.l...  



Editor's note: WTC Building 7 was 610 feet tall, 47 stories.  It would have been the tallest building in 33 states.  Although it was not hit by an airplane, it  completely collapsed into a pile of rubble in less than 7 seconds at 5:20 p.m. on 9/11, seven hours after the collapses of the Twin Towers.  However, no mention of its collapse appears in the 9/11 Commission's "full and complete account of the circumstances surrounding the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks."  Watch the collapse video here.  And six years after 9/11, the Federal government has yet to publish its promised final report that explains the cause of its collapse.



Bio: http://nomoregames.net/index.php?page=bio




 
 

Paul Craig Roberts, PhD 


      Paul Craig Roberts, PhD – Assistant Secretary of the U.S. Treasury under  Ronald Reagan, "Father of Reaganomics".  Former Associate Editor of the Wall  Street Journal.  Currently Chairman of the Institute for Political Economy and Research Fellow                 at the Independent Institute. Former William E. Simon                 chair in political economy, Center for Strategic and International                 Studies, Georgetown University.  Former Senior Research Fellow, Hoover                 Institution, Stanford University.  Author or co-author of several books on economics and politics,  including; The                 Supply-Side Revolution (1985), Alienation and the Soviet Economy: The Collapse of the Socialist Era (1990), The Soviet Union After Perestroika (1991), The Capitalist Revolution in Latin America (2003).
      
      
Interview Alex Jones Show 1/9/08: 


"There's no accountability now, because the government got away with 9/11 and so any kind of violence is justified in terms of protecting us from terrorists or people who might have been a terrorist ...
		


        Well, I've never tried to hide anything. I just try to say what the evidence supports. I never believed 9/11, because I had engineering training at Georgia Tech and I could tell when a building is being blown up by explosives. Any fool can look at those films and see the buildings aren't falling down, they're blowing up." At 9:25 of the segment at 
        http://www.youtube.com



Endorsement of 9/11 and American Empire (Vol I) – Intellectuals Speak Out: "This is the most important book of our time. Distinguished national  and international scientists and scholars present massive evidence that  the 9/11 Commission Report is a hoax and that the 9/11  "terrorist attack" has been manipulated to serve a hegemonic agenda in  the Middle East. The book's call for a truly independent panel of  experts to be empowered to bring out the true facts must be heeded or  Americans will never again live under accountable government." http://www.interlinkbooks.com



Essay 8/16/06: "We know that it is strictly impossible for any  building, much less steel columned buildings, to "pancake" at free fall speed.  Therefore, it is a non-controversial fact that the official explanation of the  collapse of the WTC buildings is false."   http://www.informationclearinghouse.info



Essay 2/6/06: "There  are not many editors eager for writers to explore the glaring defects of the  9/11 Commission Report. One would think that if the report could stand  analysis, there would not be a taboo against calling attention to the  inadequacy of its explanations." http://www.counterpunc



Bio: http://www.vdare.com/roberts/bio.htm




 
 

Catherine Austin Fitts 


      Catherine Austin Fitts – Assistant Secretary of Housing under  George H.W. Bush. Former Managing  Director and Member of the Board  of Wall Street investment bank, Dillon, Read & Co
      
      
Audio interview with Dennis Bernstein Flashpoints Pacifica Radio Network 9/9/04: Regarding 9/11 "The official story could not possibly  have happened.  In other words, what the administration has put forward is essentially a conspiracy theory  that does not conform to the facts.  It’s not possible.  It’s  not operationally feasible... The Commission was a whitewash." (About 45 minutes into the file.)  http://www.kpfa.org



Essay 3/22/04: "The first category  of people who benefited were those who are guilty and complicit in designing,  implementing and financing the 9-11 operation. On such a sophisticated and  successful covert operation, the people responsible would have had budgets and  financing and would have organized the operation to maximize their political  and financial benefits."   http://globalresearch.ca



Signatory: Petition requesting a reinvestigation of 9/11:     
          "We want  truthful answers to question. …  As  Americans of conscience, we ask for four things:
          
An  immediate investigation by New York Attorney General Eliot Spitzer 
Immediate  investigation in Congressional Hearings. 
Media  attention to scrutinize and investigate the evidence. 
The  formation of a truly independent citizens-based inquiry." http://www.911truth.org/article 





Bio: http://www.solari.com/about/ca_fitts.html




 
 

Burt Hall 


Burt Hall  – Former Group Director, U.S. Government  Accountability Office on national security matters, 35 years of service evaluating, for Congress, activities of  the Department of Defense, the three military services and their major  contractors. He served also on a  congressional commission, similar to the 9/11 one, and with the Office  of Management and Budget. Graduate of the Harvard Advanced  Management Program. WWII Vet. Co-author of Misuses of Power - How the Far Right Gained and Misuses  Power (2005) and How the Experts Win at Bridge (1996).
          
Essay Reopening the 9/11 Investigation  1/17/10:



			"In OpEd News.Com of January 8, 2010, 911  Widows strongly objected to the absence of any accountability for the  9/11 and Xmas Day terror attacks. Their position is that without  personal accountability there will be no impetus to prevent future  failures. The major issue they raise is: "The 9/11 Commissioners would  not assign any accountability nor did they recommend that incompetent  people be fired".
			


			
The 9/11 Widows are on the right track, but don't have the full story  because the 9/11 Commission didn't disclose it. The White House was the  real problem. How do you fire the President and Vice- President, except  at election time?After rejecting the new office of homeland security,  the Vice-President was supposed to set up a defense against domestic  attacks. Over a period of several months his project never got off the  ground. All the discussion about sharing of information and connecting  dots at lower levels had nothing to do with the 9/11 outcome. How could  it -- neither the President nor the Vice-President ever accepted what  was then the most advanced threat in U.S. history? ... 

True accountability for 9/11 should be  shared by the President, the Vice President and their national security  team. An extensive article on this entire topic (including the White  House cover-up) is out for possible publication. The article documents  that our government at the very highest level had reliable information  on the approaching 9/11 attacks, but did not make an attempt to stop  them. To this day we do not know why, although the article suggests a  possible reason. The 9/11 investigation should be reopened, and only  then will the 911 Widows find some peace of mind in their long quest  for accountability." http://www.opednews.com/articles    
            [For more information on the 9/11 widows, see Patty Casazza, Monica Gabrielle, Mindy Kleinberg, and Lorie Van Auken.]




 
 

Harry C. Ballantyne, ASA 


      Harry C. Ballantyne, ASA  – Chief Actuary, U.S. Social Security Administration, 1982 - 2000, responsible for monitoring the financial                 status of the Social Security system and estimating the effects                 of proposals to modify the program, reporting directly to the Commissioner of Social Security.  Prior to this appointment, Deputy Chief Actuary for short-range estimates 1975 - 1982.
        Recipient of the Presidential Rank Award for Distinguished Senior Career Executives presented by Vice President Al Gore 1998.
       Member of the Society of  Actuaries, and of the American   Academy of Actuaries.
      
Statement in support of Architects and Engineers petition: 

 "The evidence presented on this website, and a presentation by Morgan  Reynolds, former Chief Economist, in the first George W. Bush  Administration and Judy Wood, were convincing evidence to me that we  have not heard the whole truth about the events of 9/11/2001. ...
		  

 

        I continued to have some doubts that even the Bush Administration would  not hide the truth of 9/11, however Ron Suskind's new book about the  forged letter from Habbush rings true, in spite of the denials of the  Bush Administration, and if they could stoop so low as to fake a letter  from Habbush, then I believe they could cover up the truth about the  horrendous events of 9/11."  http://www.ae911truth.org



Signatory: Petition requesting a reinvestigation of 9/11, signed by more than 1,500 Architects and Engineers:



"On Behalf of the People of the United States of America, the     undersigned Architects and Engineers for 9/11 Truth and     affiliates  hereby petition for, and demand, a truly     independent investigation with subpoena power in order to     uncover the full truth surrounding the events of 9/11/01 -     specifically the collapse of the World Trade Center Towers and     Building 7.  We believe that there is sufficient doubt about     the official story and therefore that the 9/11 investigation     must be re-opened and must include a full inquiry into the     possible use of explosives that may have been the actual cause     behind the destruction of the World Trade Center Towers and     WTC Building 7." http://www.ae911truth.org/joinus.php

 
Editor's note: WTC Building 7 was 610 feet tall, 47 stories.  It would have been the tallest building in 33 states.  Although it was not hit by an airplane, it  completely collapsed into a pile of rubble in less than 7 seconds at 5:20 p.m. on 9/11, seven hours after the collapses of the Twin Towers.  However, no mention of its collapse appears in the 9/11 Commission's "full and complete account of the circumstances surrounding the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks."  Watch the collapse video here.  And six years after 9/11, the Federal government has yet to publish its promised final report that explains the cause of its collapse.




 
 

William  Bergman, MA, MBA


William  Bergman, MA, MBA  – Former  Economist and Senior Analyst, Federal Reserve  Bank of Chicago 1990 - 2004.  In 2003 - 2004, he was assigned to investigate terrorism-related money laundering.
          

Essay Curious Coincidences of 2001: Following the 9/11 Money Trail 1/4/06: "On p. 172 of the final [9/11 Commission] report, after discussing money laundering  issues, the commission concluded, "To date, the U.S. government has not  been able to determine the origin of the money used for the 9/11  attacks.  Ultimately, the question is of little practical significance." 

 This rather ridiculous statement suggests that some of the biggest  bones may be buried in the financial area.  Examples include wire  transfers from Pakistan to Mohamed Atta in Florida bank accounts in  mid-2001, a spike in U.S. currency growth in July and August 2001,  suspicious activity reporting by financial institutions in July and  August 2001, and the commission’s misleading description of the  emphasis on counterterrorism in anti-money laundering initiatives. 

 As early as October 2001, government investigative work and media  reports publicly suggested that Mohamed Atta had been receiving wire  transfers in bank accounts in Florida in the year before 9/11.  Some  of those transfers were reported to have been arranged by people linked  to Pakistani intelligence services as well as al-Qaeda. 

 One of those reportedly involved in making the transfers [General Mahmoud  Ahmed] left his  position as Director of the Pakistani intelligence service soon after  September 11.  This person happened to be visiting Washington the week  before 9/11, and was having breakfast with leaders of the Senate and  House Intelligence Committees on the very morning of 9/11 – leaders of  the subsequent Congressional Joint Inquiry into the events of September  11. 

 A complete discussion of what we know about these transfers,  whether these transfers were or were not made, and if they were, who  arranged them and how, would seem to be a critical element of any full  and complete investigation.  Yet, amazingly, and yet, perhaps not so  amazingly, they went unmentioned in the 9/11 commission’s final report. ... 

 Under-explored financial issues relating to 9/11 appear to be part of a  broader, significant problem.  The 585-page final report of the 9/11  Commission is extensively footnoted and superficially impressive.  Many  people worked long and hard on it.  However, in a statement following  the Able Danger revelations several months ago, members of the  September 11th Advocates (the above-noted victim families group) aptly  described the report as a "hollow failure."  Unanswered questions  pointing to serious issues abound, and in a variety of areas." http://www.911citizenswatch.org    [For more information on the September 11th Advocates, see Kristen Breitweiser, Patty Casazza, Monica Gabrielle, Mindy Kleinberg, and Lorie Van Auken.] 



Editor's note: Despite the finding of the Joint House-Senate Select Intelligence Committee's 2002 Report (p.415) of "sources of foreign support for some of the September 11 hijackers", the 9/11 Commission Report (p. 172) states, "Similarly, we have seen no evidence that any foreign government -- or government official -- supplied any funding."  For more information on foreign support of the 9/11 hijackers,  see Senator Bob Graham, Congresswoman Cynthia McKinney, Major John Newman, and Michael Meacher. 



Editor's note:  The 9/11 Commission states in its Monograph on Terrorist Financing, "The U.S. government investigation unequivocally concluded that there was no evidence
              of illicit trading in the U.S. markets with knowledge of the terrorist attacks. The
              Commission staff, after an independent review of the government investigation, has
              discovered no reason to doubt this conclusion." For more information on 9/11-related investment irregularities, see Paul Zarembka, Marc Chesney, and Ernst Welteke . 




 
 
 
Enver Masud, BS EE, MS OR, PE 


      Enver Masud, BS EE, MS OR (Operations Research), PE  – Former Chief, Strategic and Emergency Planning Branch, U.S. Department of Energy.  Engineering management consultant.  Expert in electrical power grid management.  Consulted for World Bank, EBRD, and USAID in Albania, Czech Republic, Egypt, Ghana, Indonesia, Latvia, Norway,Pakistan, Russia, Tanzania.  Former Director, Office of Engineering, Washington, D.C. Public Service Commission.  Served on the System Planning Subcommittee, the International Practices  			Subcommittee, and the Long Range Planning Task Force of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers ( IEEE).  Author of more than 120  			technical and non-technical articles and reports.  Founder and CEO of The Wisdom Fund, and  	recipient of the 2002 Gold Award from the Human Rights Foundation for his book The War on Islam.  He is also a contributing  	author of Islam: Opposing Viewpoints, and 9/11 and American Empire: Christians, Jews, and Muslims Speak Out.

Statement to this website 6/6/07: "The 9/11 Commission Report is fatally flawed.  The major conclusions  of the 9/11 Commission Report - the official, conspiracy theory - are  false.  Among its many problems; 

 1. It is entirely silent on the collapse of WTC  Building 7.  

 2. The FBI has admitted it has no hard evidence that Bin Laden was responsible for the attacks of 9/11.  

 3. To this day, the hijackers' identities remain in doubt.  

 4. Evidence, including the lack of adequate debris,  at both the Pentagon and Shanksville  contradicts the official theory  of Flights 77 and 93.     

 5. There is  prima facie evidence of the controlled demolition of the WTC Twin Towers and Building 7." 


Editor's note: WTC Building 7 was 610 feet tall, 47 stories.  It would have been the tallest building in 33 states.  Although it was not hit by an airplane, it  completely collapsed into a pile of rubble in less than 7 seconds at 5:20 p.m. on 9/11, seven hours after the collapses of the Twin Towers.  However, no mention of its collapse appears in the 9/11 Commission's "full and complete account of the circumstances surrounding the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks."  Watch the collapse video here.  And six years after 9/11, the Federal government has yet to publish its promised final report that explains the cause of its collapse.



Signatory: Petition requesting a reinvestigation of 9/11, signed by more than 1,500 Architects and Engineers: 

 "On Behalf of the People of the United States of America, the     undersigned Architects and Engineers for 9/11 Truth and     affiliates  hereby petition for, and demand, a truly     independent investigation with subpoena power in order to     uncover the full truth surrounding the events of 9/11/01 -     specifically the collapse of the World Trade Center Towers and     Building 7.  We believe that there is sufficient doubt about     the official story and therefore that the 9/11 investigation     must be re-opened and must include a full inquiry into the     possible use of explosives that may have been the actual cause     behind the destruction of the World Trade Center Towers and     WTC Building 7." http://www.ae911truth.org/joinus.php



Signatory: Petition requesting a reinvestigation of 9/11:     
          "We want  truthful answers to question. …  As  Americans of conscience, we ask for four things:
          
An  immediate investigation by New York Attorney General Eliot Spitzer 
Immediate  investigation in Congressional Hearings. 
Media  attention to scrutinize and investigate the evidence. 
The  formation of a truly independent citizens-based inquiry." http://www.911truth.org/article 





Bio: http://www.twf.org/bio/em.html



Blog: http://911sig.blogspot.com




 
 

Joel S. Hirschhorn, PhD


      Joel S. Hirschhorn, BS Metallurgical Engineering, MS Metallurgical Engineering, PhD Materials Engineering – Senior Staff Member, Congressional Office of Technology  Assessment  1978 - 1990.  Testified more than 50 times before Congress on technology, science, and environmental issues.  Former Director of Environment, Energy and Natural Resources, National Governors               Association.  Dr. Hirschhorn has been a consultant to industrial and  chemical companies, DOE laboratories, state governments, and public interest organizations.  Professor of Metallurgical  Engineering, University of Wisconsin, Madison 1965 - 1978.  Co-founder of Friends of the Article V Convention at www.foavc.org.  Member, Board of Directors, National Foundation for Environmental Education.  Member, Board of Directors, Sustainability Now!  Author of  more than 150 papers, articles, guest editorials,  and book chapters on environmental science and technology.  Author of Delusional Democracy: Fixing the Republic Without Overthrowing the Government (2007), Sprawl Kills (2005), New Community Design to the Rescue (2001), Growing pains: Quality of Life in the New Economy (2000), Prosperity without Pollution (1991), Materials Science (1975), Introduction to Powder Metallurgy (1969).
      
Essay 9/11 Truth Manifesto  12/19/07:  

		  

 "For evidence that   America’s political system is a criminal conspiracy, open your mind to   piles of new analyses that prove beyond doubt that the official 9/11   story is a lie.  Years of a bipartisan cover-up of 9/11   lies make it much more than one horrendous past event.  It   endures in infamy as a symptom of a corrupt and dishonest government. 

 Every day   we pay for what 9/11 and its cover-up have burdened us with, including   the costly Iraq war and the erosion of the rule of law and   constitutional rights.  Power elites have suppressed the   truth because they fear what will happen when the public understands   that 9/11 was not accomplished solely by foreign terrorists. 

 
Technically   sound analyses of what happened at the World Trade Center have   unequivocally shown that the official 9/11 story is not credible (www.ae911truth.org).  Truth seekers have met their burden of   proof; the government has not met theirs.  Simply put,   controlled demolition brought down three buildings, not fires from the   impact of planes on two of them.  Not only was the US   government involved, it has also conspired to hide the truth from the   public.  Why?  Republican and Democratic   politicians and power elites fear that 9/11 truth will remove what   little public trust remains in government.  The truth will   produce political instability, perhaps breaking the two-party   stranglehold on our political system.  And it should.    And it must, if we are to finally obtain the deep political   reforms our nation desperately needs.

 The   decline started before George W. Bush and his criminal co-conspirators   accelerated it with their blatant disregard for the rule of law and our   Constitution.  It will continue, even with a Democratic   administration, unless we reform our political system.  We   must remind Americans that our nation was born in an insurrectionist,   populist rebellion against political tyranny – and that 9/11 teaches us   that we need a Second American Revolution.  We must destroy   the domestic Axis of Arrogance of our plutocracy more than fear a   foreign Axis of Evil.  How? 

 A vast   nationwide grassroots 9/11 truth movement is ignored by the mainstream   news media.  Its success will be the catalyst for renewing   American democracy.  It will produce a shock wave that   rattles the brains of all Americans: Shock therapy from a truth so   powerful and unsettling that Americans finally see the decline of   American democracy that allowed 9/11 and its cover-up. 

 Make no   mistake, the 9/11 truth movement holds the future of the United States.    We are not subversive “conspiracy theorists” or enablers of   foreign terrorism.  We are patriotic warriors working to   nullify group delusion produced by government propaganda.  Dozens   of books and websites reveal countless technical contradictions and   inconsistencies with the official government 9/11 story and the laws of   physics.  The weight of the evidence supports one painful   verdict: Our federal government played a role, probably through a large   “black op.”  The “why” is obvious: To justify an unjust war   to serve corporate interests and greed." http://www.opednews.com



Member: Political Leaders for 9/11 Truth Association Statement: 

 "Scholars and professionals with various kinds of expertise---including  architects, engineers, firefighters, intelligence officers, lawyers,  medical professionals, military officers, philosophers, religious  leaders, physical scientists, and pilots---have spoken out about  radical discrepancies between the official account of the 9/11 attacks  and what they, as independent researchers, have learned. 

 They  have established beyond any reasonable doubt that the official account  of 9/11 is false and that, therefore, the official “investigations”  have really been cover-up operations. 

 Thus far, however, there  has been no response from political leaders in Washington or, for that  matter, in other capitals around the world. Our organization, Political  Leaders for 9/11 Truth, has been formed to help bring about such a  response. 

 We believe that the truth about 9/11 needs to be  exposed now---not in 50 years as a footnote in the history books---so  the policies that have been based on the Bush-Cheney administration’s  interpretation of the 9/11 attacks can be changed. 

 We are,  therefore, calling for a new, independent investigation of 9/11 that  takes account of evidence that has been documented by independent  researchers but thus far ignored by governments and the mainstream  media."



Signatory: Petition requesting a reinvestigation of 9/11, signed by more than 1,500 Architects and Engineers: 

 "On Behalf of the People of the United States of America, the     undersigned Architects and Engineers for 9/11 Truth and     affiliates  hereby petition for, and demand, a truly     independent investigation with subpoena power in order to     uncover the full truth surrounding the events of 9/11/01 -     specifically the collapse of the World Trade Center Towers and     Building 7.  We believe that there is sufficient doubt about     the official story and therefore that the 9/11 investigation     must be re-opened and must include a full inquiry into the     possible use of explosives that may have been the actual cause     behind the destruction of the World Trade Center Towers and     WTC Building 7." http://www.ae911truth.org/joinus.php



Editor's note: WTC Building 7 was 610 feet tall, 47 stories.  It would have been the tallest building in 33 states.  Although it was not hit by an airplane, it  completely collapsed into a pile of rubble in less than 7 seconds at 5:20 p.m. on 9/11, seven hours after the collapses of the Twin Towers.  However, no mention of its collapse appears in the 9/11 Commission's "full and complete account of the circumstances surrounding the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks."  Watch the collapse video here.  And six years after 9/11, the Federal government has yet to publish its promised final report that explains the cause of its collapse.




 
 

Mary Schiavo, JD 


      Mary Schiavo, JD  – Former Inspector General, U.S. Department of  Transportation  1990 - 1996.  Former Professor of Aviation, Dept. of Aerospace Engineering and Aviation and Professor of Public Policy, Ohio State University.  1997 inductee into the Smithsonian Institution Aviation Laurel Hall of Fame.  Currently, an attorney with Motley Rice LLC.  Served as an on-air aviation consultant for  NBC and ABC News and frequently appears on Fox, CNN, CBS and the BBC.  Private pilot.  Author of Flying Blind, Flying Safe (1998).
        
 Article The New York Observer 2/15/04:  "Ms. Schiavo sat in on the commission's hearing on  aviation security on 9/11 and was disgusted by what it left out.  "In  any other situation, it would be unthinkable to withhold investigative  material from an independent commission," she told this writer.  "There  are usually grave consequences.  But the commission is clearly not  talking to everybody or not telling us everything." ... 

 The timeline that is most disturbing belongs to the last of the four  suicide missions -- United Airlines Flight 93, later presumed destined for  the U.S. Capitol, if not the White House.  Huge discrepancies persist in  basic facts, such as when it crashed into the Pennsylvania countryside  near Shanksville.  The official impact time according to NORAD, the North  American Air Defense Command, is 10:03 a.m.  Later, U.S. Army seismograph  data gave the impact time as 10:06:05.  The FAA gives a crash time of  10:07 a.m.  And The New York Times, drawing on flight controllers   in more than one FAA facility, put the time at 10:10 a.m. 

 Up to a seven-minute discrepancy?  In terms of an air disaster, seven  minutes is close to an eternity.  The way our nation has historically  treated any airline tragedy is to pair up recordings from the cockpit and  air-traffic control and parse the timeline down to the hundredths of a  second.  But as Mary Schiavo points out, "We don't have an NTSB (National  Transportation Safety Board) investigation here, and they ordinarily  dissect the timeline to the thousandth of a second."  http://www.observer.com/node/48805



Press conference statement 6/10/02: "First of all, the question is not 'What they should have  known?'  And I believe    I can show you in just a few seconds  the question is, 'What did they know?'  And    believe me, they  knew a lot.
  		    
 


            The second thing to emphasize is that in every    single aviation disaster, whether there was intervening  criminal activity or    not, in every single one in the  course of modern aviation history it has been    followed  by, not only were it necessary, a criminal investigation,  but also    a National Transportation Safety investigation  into what went wrong in the aviation    system.  And the  reason for that is so that it never happens again.  	[Editor's	Note: The NTSB never conducted full investigations of the four plane crashes on 9/11.  The NTSB's official position for each plane involved on 9/11 is, "The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 are under the jurisdiction  of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The Safety Board provided  requested technical assistance to the FBI, and this material generated  by the NTSB is under the control of the FBI. The Safety Board does not  plan to issue a report or open a public docket."]
		   

 

            This is  the    first time, and this is the worst disaster, but this  is the first time that    families have been attempted to be  silenced through a special fund, which I    believe is about  silence more so than about money.  Why? ...
          		   
		   

 

            And from my rounds on the Hill to  find these facts    and others, I found that the airlines  approached members of Congress and the    Senate to get  their bailout and their immunity and their protection  starting    on 9/11.  They sent their first lobbyist up to  the Hill on 9/11.  And this has    been confirmed to me  personally by Senators and members of Congress.  Now to    me  that's very shocking but to me it raises another question,  why?  Why did they    have to rush to the Hill to change the  law? ...	
				    

  

            So in the  wake of September    11, 2001, when we heard the carriers  and governments alike saying, “Oh,    no one could have  foreseen this. No one knew that this was coming.  No one knew  that there was any risk like this in the world,” is  absolutely false.	...	   
		    

  
			In the last thirty years    we have had 682  hijackings.  682.  Here's an interesting statistic. When we  had    the United States saying, 'Oh, we couldn't have known  this.'		    

  

			In the Q&A section:  "We did have another     plot in the United States to hijack a plane and crash it  into a building.  And,    by the way, we had a government  cost/benefit analysis of this very same scenario.     The  only problem with this government cost/benefit analysis was  they used a    737 and figured it would be one plane crashed  into a building.  So I do believe    that the government  certainly knew that these things were possible.  In fact     it had been attempted before and the information was out  there.  But we do tend    to get, as a government, tend to  get bogged down in the cost/benefit analysis. 

 And I, for  one, happen to agree that the warnings were very fairly  specific.  June 22nd FAA issued a bulletin that had  concerns about terrorism.  July 2nd    FAA told the airlines  the man involved in the millennium plot had intention    of  using explosives in terminal buildings.  July 18th the FAA  issued a bulletin    that said there are terrorist threats  and we urge you to use caution.  July 31    that there are  going to be terror groups planning and training for  hijacking.     Use caution. And finally August 16th disguised  weapons. 

 So I think the warning    signs were not only ample  but specific and there was previous attacks where    planes  were going to be used to crash into buildings.  So only the  government    can probably answer now at this point why they  didn't take them seriously." 
		    Video: http://www.propagandamatrix.com
		    Transcript: 
		    http://www.scoop.co.nz



Editor's note:  Mary Schiavo's statements of fact that a.) 682 hijackings of commercial airplanes had occurred in the 30 years prior to 9/11, on average one every 16 days, b.) the US government was previously aware of "another     plot in the United States to hijack a plane and crash it  into a building", c.) the government had conducted cost / benefit analysis of the scenario of terrorists crashing Boeing 737's into buildings, and d.) recitation of the numerous FAA terrorism warnings in the two months prior to 9/11 demonstrates that no imagination was needed to envision the events of 9/11, which is in direct contradiction to  9/11 Commission Chairman Thomas Kean's description of the main cause of 9/11 "... this was a failure of policy, management, capability,  and, above all, a failure of imagination."  See also Ellen Engleman, former Chair, National Transportation Safety Board, and Coleen Rowley, former Special Agent, FBI.



Bio: http://www.motleyrice.com





 
 


Ellen Engleman, JD, MPA



Ellen Engleman, JD, Master Public Administration  – Former Chair, National Transportation Safety Board 3/03 - 12/07. Former Administrator, Research and Special Programs Administration (RSPA), U.S. Department of Transportation 9/01 - 3/03. Former governmental affairs executive for GTE North 1987 - 1992. Former Congressional Fellow in the office of Senator Richard G. Lugar. Former Personal Assistant to former Secretary of Labor Lynn Martin. Currently Director of External Relations at Johnson Space Center.
        
Public Comment at National Transportation Security Summit 10/30/01: 

 "... 12 days prior to the incident on September 11th,  we were going though a tabletop exercise. It was actually much more than a  tabletop… in preparation for the Olympic games, at the Department of  Transportation, which was a full intermodal exercise. During that exercise, part  of the scenario, interestingly enough, involved a potentially highjacked plane  and someone calling on a cell phone, among other aspects of the scenario that  were very strange when twelve days later, as you know, we had the actual event." http://transweb.sjsu.edu



Editor's note:  Ellen Engleman's statement of fact that airplane hijacking drills were conducted at the Department of Transportation 12 days before 9/11 demonstrates that no imagination was needed to envision the events of 9/11, which is in direct contradiction to  9/11 Commission Chairman Thomas Kean's description of the main cause of 9/11 "... this was a failure of policy, management, capability,  and, above all, a failure of imagination."  See also Mary Schiavo, former Inspector General, Department of Transportation, and Coleen Rowley, former Special Agent, FBI.





 
 
 


Kenneth M. Mead, JD 



      Kenneth M. Mead, JD  – Former Inspector General of the Department of Transportation.  Member of the  President's Council on Integrity and Efficiency.  Prior to becoming  Inspector General, he served for 22 years with the U.S. Government  Accountability Office (GAO), Congress' investigative arm.  Recipient of:   the Career Achievement Award from the President's Council on Integrity and Efficiency and the Distinguished Service Award and Meritorious Service Award from the GAO.  Currently Special Counsel in the law firm of 
      Baker Botts.
      
New York Times article "FAA Official Scrapped Tape of 9/11 Controllers' Statements" 5/6/04: 

 "At least six air traffic controllers who dealt with two of the hijacked  airliners on Sept. 11, 2001, made a tape recording that same day  describing the events, but the tape was destroyed by a supervisor  without anyone making a transcript or even listening to it, the  Transportation Department said in a report today. ... 

 But officials at the center never told higher-ups of the tape's  existence, and it was later destroyed by an FAA official described  in the report as a quality-assurance manager there. That manager  crushed the cassette in his hand, shredded the tape and dropped the  pieces into different trash cans around the building, according to a  report made public today by the inspector general of the Transportation  Department. ... 

 The inspector general, Kenneth M. Mead, said that the officials'  keeping the existence of the tape a secret and the decision by one to  destroy it had not served "the interests of the FAA, the department  or the public" and could foster suspicions among the public. ... 

 On the tape, the controllers, some of whom had spoken by radio to  people on the planes and some who had tracked the aircraft on radar,  gave statements of 5 to 10 minutes each, according to the report. ... 

 One of the central questions about the events of that morning is how  the FAA responded to emerging clues that four planes had been  hijacked. A tape made within hours of the events, as well as written  statements given later, could help establish that. ... 

 The quality-assurance manager destroyed the tape between December 2001  and February, 2002. By that time, he and the center manager had  received an e-mail message sent by the FAA instructing officials to  safeguard all records and adding, "If a question arises whether or not  you should retain data, RETAIN IT." 

 The inspector general attributed the tape's destruction to "poor judgment." 

 "The destruction of evidence in the government's possession, in this  case an audiotape particularly during times of a national crisis, has  the effect of fostering an appearance that information is being  withheld from the public," the inspector general's report said. "We do  not ascribe motivations to the managers in this case of attempting to  cover up, and we have no indication that there was anything on the tape  that would lead anyone to conclude that they had something to hide or  that the controllers did not carry out their duties."  http://www.nytimes.com



Bio: http://www.bakerbotts.com





 
 

Eleanor Hill, JD



      Eleanor Hill, JD – Former Staff Director of the Joint Intelligence Committee Inquiry (JICI) of the U.S. Congress on the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001.  Former Inspector General of the Department of Defense.  Former Chair of the  President’s Council on Integrity and Efficiency, Co-chair of the  Intelligence Community Inspectors General Forum, and Member of the  Attorney General’s Council on White Collar Crime.  Former Chief Counsel, U.S. Senate’s Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations.  Former Assistant U.S. Attorney in Tampa, Florida and Special Attorney with the  Organized Crime Section of the U.S. Justice Department.  Awarded the  Department of Defense Distinguished Service Medal by Secretary William  Perry.  Awarded the Bronze Palm to the Distinguished Public Service Medal by  Secretary William Cohen.  Currently Partner with the law firm of King & Spalding.
      
 Interview on CBC  10/29/03: 

 Hearings about the intelligence failure began on                                 Capitol Hill several months after 9/11. A Congressional                                 Committee was formed to investigate just what happened                                 and why. The focus was to be on what U.S. intelligence                                 agencies knew - or should have known - prior to                                 the bombings. 

 The much anticipated 800 page report was released                                 in the summer of 2003. (go to the web                                 site for the report) 

 Most of the attention has been focused on 28 pages                                 that have been ordered classified and blacked-out                                 to the public. 

 People familiar with the missing                                pages  claim that they deal with the Saudi government's                                 relationship with the 9/11 hijackers. 

 In an interview with the fifth estate,                                 Eleanor Hill, chief investigator for the Committee,                                 would only confirm that those files dealt with sources                                 of foreign support for the hijackers. 

 "Because they're classified I can't tell you                                 what's in those pages. I can tell you that the chapter                                 deals with some information that our committee found                                 in the FBI and CIA files that was very disturbing.                                 It had to do with sources of foreign support for                                 the hijackers." 
http://www.cbc.ca



Editor's note: Despite the finding of the Joint House-Senate Select Intelligence Committee's 2002 Report (p.415) of "sources of foreign support for some of the September 11 hijackers", the 9/11 Commission Report (p. 172) states, "Similarly, we have seen no evidence that any foreign government -- or government official -- supplied any funding."  For more information on foreign support of the 9/11 hijackers,  see Senator Bob Graham, Congresswoman Cynthia McKinney, William Bergman, and Michael Meacher.



Article by Gail Sheehy 8/24/03: "A month later, on  the morning of July 24, before the scathing Congressional report on  intelligence failures was released, Kristen [Breitweiser] and the three other moms  from New Jersey with whom she'd been in league sat impassively at a  briefing by staff director Eleanor Hill: In fact, they learned, the  FBI had open investigations on 14 individuals who had contact with  the hijackers while they were in the United States. ... 

 Eleanor Hill, the universally respected staff director of the JICI investigation, shares the moms' point of view.  "One of our  biggest concerns is our finding that there were people in this country  assisting these hijackers," she said later in an interview with this  writer. "Since the FBI was in fact investigating all these people as  part of their counterterroism effort, and they knew some of them had  ties to Al Qaeda, then how good was their investigation if they didn't  come across the hijackers?"  http://www.observer.com/node/47983 



 Bio: http://www.kslaw.com/bio/Eleanor_Hill




 
 

J. Terrence "Terry" Brunner


      J. Terrence "Terry" Brunner – Former prosecutor in the Organized Crime and Racketeering Section of the U.S.  Justice Department  and a key  member of Attorney General Bobby Kennedy’s anti-corruption task force.  Former assistant U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of Illinois.  
        Former Executive Director of the Better Government                 Association 1971 - 2000.  Currently Director, Aviation Integrity Project.
      
Article CBS News 3/5/03:  "Here we've got the most important event in America in the past 50  years, the most horrible thing that's happened to Americans, and yet we  pick a bunch of people who are connected to the very people who are at  the center of the question of who's at fault," says Terry Brunner, a  former federal prosecutor who now runs the Aviation Integrity Project  in Chicago. "It's ridiculous."
		   
		    
			 Brunner checked out the commissioners and discovered that out of 10, at  least six represent the very companies they're now investigating. 

 He says they are: "Fred Fielding, Spirit Airlines, United Airlines;  Slade Gordon represents Delta Airlines; Sen. Max Cleland – $300,000  from the airline industry; Jim Thompson represents American Airlines;  Richard Ben-Veniste represents Boeing and United Airlines; and Rep. Tim  Roemer - Boeing and Lockheed Martin." 

 "They're all up to here, with either being connected to the airlines or to the manufacturer of the airplane," says Brunner. 

 One of the commissioners, former Illinois Gov. Jim Thompson, once  represented United and still counsels American - the very airlines  involved in the Sept. 11 attack. 

 "The issue of my firm's representing American shouldn't be taken  too far," says Thompson. "I don't think the commission as a whole is  conflicted." 

 "When you've got six out of the ten people, a majority of the  group, are connected in that way, how can they make an honest call?"  asks Brunner." http://www.cbsnews.com





 
John Loftus 

John Loftus – Former  Federal Prosecutor, Office of Special Investigations, U.S. Department of Justice under Presidents Jimmy Carter and Ronald Reagan.  Former U.S. Army Intelligence officer.  Currently author and frequent media commentator on terrorism and intelligence services.
        
        
Article The Guardian 9/6/03: "The information provided by European intelligence  services prior to 9/11 was so extensive that it is no longer possible for  either the CIA or FBI to assert a defence of incompetence." http://www.guardian.co.



Bio: http://www.harrywalker.com




 
 
 
George Kenney 


      George Kenney – Former career Foreign Service Officer,  serving as Yugoslav desk officer at the State Department headquarters  in Washington, DC.  Resigned his commission in 1991 over US policy towards the  Yugoslav conflict.  Then served as consultant in  residence at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace.  Currently consultant and commentator on foreign affairs and current events.
      
      
Audio interview of James Fetzer 2/25/06: 

 "I  must admit it's difficult for me, as a former bureaucrat, to imagine  that people within the US government could pull off a successful  conspiracy.  On the other hand, I cannot believe, much as I might like  to, the standard account of 9/11."  http://www.electricpolitics.com/podcast/2006



Audio interview of David Ray Griffin 5/11/07:   

 Written introduction to the interview:  "So you implement one of the most stupendous black-ops of all time.  Considering the multitude of variables, you've put together a fairly  convincing cover story that fixes blame on Islamic terrorists.  Using  the full weight of the political establishment you bulldoze away public  discussion of the truth.  A complaisant press repeats your lies in a ciclo infinito forte.  Though a few malcontents won't buy it, they're marginalized.  Then along  comes your worst nightmare: a distinguished theologian whose  cross-disciplinary specialization involves highly sophisticated  reasoning that requires familiarity with logic, science, and the  scientific method — a man with no personal vested interest whatsoever  (and no way to falsely hang one on him), who digs in tenaciously to ask  the right questions, and who becomes a true patriotic hero to many.  In  short order, despite the media blackout, a very large percentage of the  public becomes skeptical.  Such is the story of Dr. David Ray Griffin, a leader of the 911 Truth movement and author most recently of Debunking 9/11 Debunking.  We all owe David an enormous debt of gratitude for his insights,  energy, and determination.  It was a real privilege to talk with him,  and I'm sure his balanced views will continue to gain public support.  Total runtime here of an hour and thirteen minutes.  Listen carefully  and please redistribute widely." 

 Mr. Kenney's commentary after the interview:  "We should strive to clearly separate what we know from things we don't.  Thus, we have a reasonably high    level of confidence that the Establishment conspiracy narrative is absurd.  The World Trade Center structures came down through controlled demolition.   Flight 93 was shot down over rural Pennsylvania.  And whatever it was that hit the Pentagon could not have been Flight 77.  Further,  whatever his peripheral involvement, the planning and implementation of 9/11 did not originate with Osama bin Laden. 

 But we don't know who the real culprits are, why they acted, or how exactly they managed to stage events.  This continues to be a vexing problem for the 9/11 Truth Movement  because without those answers the entire alternative narrative suffers when compared to the Establishment version. 

 One way to get at this is to  empanel a high-level truly neutral international jury to sort out the facts, as David Ray Griffin and others have suggested doing.   The other is to      keep digging until more of the truth comes out, which will probably take a very long time. 

 And a last point, when we're spending such huge sums on a national security state, when it's literally the case that nobody knows where all the money goes and where experts on the spending say that leakage amounts to billions and billions of dollars, it's not so difficult to imagine how much black-ops mischief a billion or two might buy.  Think about it."  http://www.electricpolitics.com/podcast/2007



Bio: http://www.electricpolitics.com/faq.html




 
 

Fred Burks 

      Fred Burks – Former State Department Interpreter for Presidents George W. Bush  and Bill Clinton, Vice Presidents Dick Cheney and Al Gore, Secretaries of State  Colin Powell and Madeleine Albright.  18-year State Department career.
      
      
Essay:  "How is it  possible that our military's highly touted missile detections  systems could not locate Flight 77 in the 42 minutes it was  known to be lost before it crashed into the heart of the defense system of the  U.S.? … 

 An even bigger question is why isn't our media asking these  questions?  Why isn't our military spending many millions of dollars to find out  why military defense systems failed on 9/11?  Why is it  that the 9/11 commission budget was far less than the budget allotted to the  Challenger Disaster or even the Monika Lewinsky affair?" http://www.wanttoknow.info/911star



Signatory: Petition requesting a reinvestigation of 9/11:     
          "We want  truthful answers to question. …  As  Americans of conscience, we ask for four things:
          
An  immediate investigation by New York Attorney General Eliot Spitzer 
Immediate  investigation in Congressional Hearings. 
Media  attention to scrutinize and investigate the evidence. 
The  formation of a truly independent citizens-based inquiry." http://www.911truth.org/article 






 
 

J. Michael Springmann


      J. Michael Springmann – Former career Foreign Service Officer with the  State Department and the International Foreign           Trade Administration of the Commerce Department.  Former Consular Officer in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, where he supervised the issuance of visas. 20-year Federal Government career.
      
      
Video of Speech to National Press Club 6/10/02: "I used to be in charge of the visa section at the CIA's Consulate in Jeddah. ... There for a year and a half I issued visas to terrorists recruited by the CIA and its asset Osama Bin Laden. ... Fifteen of the nineteen people who allegedly flew airplanes into buildings in the United States got their visas from the same CIA Consulate at Jeddah." http://youtube.com



Interview BBC 11/6/01: "In Saudi Arabia I was repeatedly   ordered by high level State Dept   officials to issue visas to unqualified   applicants. These were, essentially, people   who had no ties either to Saudi Arabia   or to their own country. I complained    bitterly at the time there. I returned to the   US, I complained to the State Dept here,   to the General Accounting Office,   to the Bureau of Diplomatic Security   and to the Inspector General's office.    I was met with silence. ... 

 What I was protesting was, in reality,   an effort to bring recruits, rounded    up by Osama Bin Laden, to the US for    terrorist training by the CIA. They would   then be returned to Afghanistan to fight   against the then-Soviets." http://news.bbc.co.uk



Interviewed in the documentary film Zero: An Investigation Into 9/11  10/26/07:  

 "After September 11, 2001, when I heard about the planes crashing into the World Trade Towers and into the Pentagon, I said, 'Jeez, this was the same -- these were the same people according to the Los Angeles Times who had gotten their visas from the American Consulate General at Jeddah.'  I called the Federal Bureau of Investigation and tell them essentially about the visas for terrorist program.  I did this.  I called and I called and I called.  I was passed from one office of the FBI to another and ended up at the Washington field office.  And someone there said, 'We'll get back to you.'  Well, six years later, I'm still waiting."



Editors Note: Mr. Springmann's statements contradict the 9/11 Commission Report's statement, "But Bin Laden and his comrades had their own sources of support and training, and they received little or no assistance from the United States." (page 56).  See also statement by Robin Cook, former  Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs, United Kingdom regarding CIA training of Al-Qaida.



Signatory: Petition requesting a reinvestigation of 9/11:     
"We want  truthful answers to question. …  As  Americans of conscience, we ask for four things:

An  immediate investigation by New York Attorney General Eliot Spitzer 
Immediate  investigation in Congressional Hearings. 
Media  attention to scrutinize and investigate the evidence. 
The  formation of a truly independent citizens-based inquiry." http://www.911truth.org/article 





Signatory: Lawyers for 9/11 Truth petition requesting a reinvestigation of 9/11: 

 "Lawyers are trained to value the Constitution and the rule of law. 

 We  are trained to examine evidence and to spot cover-ups or  inconsistencies in the evidence and bias in witnesses or  decision-makers. 

 Attorneys are also experts in weighing conflicting evidence. 

 For all of the above reasons, many  lawyers have concluded that the 9/11 Commission and other government  examinations were wholly inadequate, and did not follow proper rules of  evidence or procedure. 

 We are demanding an end to the 9/11  cover-up, and a full investigation by unbiased people with subpoena  power ... and the courage to demand that the Constitution and rule of  law are followed, and all guilty persons held accountable for their  actions. 

 The following legal scholars,  judges and attorneys demand an end to the 9/11 cover-up, a new, full  and unbiased investigation, and punishment of all guilty parties." http://www.l911t.com 



Bio: http://www.Springmannslaw.com/Overview.shtml




 
 

Daniel Ellsberg, PhD 


      Daniel Ellsberg, PhD  – Former 
      Special Assistant to the Assistant Secretary of Defense. Former State Department envoy to Viet Nam.  While working for the government, Ellsberg attained the ultimate civil service grade of GS-18, equivalent to a Major General.  Former U.S. Marine Corps officer.  Former military analyst for the Rand Corporation.  Most well known for leaking the Pentagon Papers to the New York Times in 1971.
      
          (See also Senator Mike Gravel.)
          
Interview by Jack Blood on Deadline Live show on GCN radio 7/14/06: Regarding 9/11 "There is no question in  my mind, that there is enough evidence to justify a very comprehensive and hard  hitting investigation of the kind we have not seen. With subpoenas, general  questioning of people, releasing a lot of documents. There’s no question that  very serious questions have been raised about how much they knew before hand  and how much involvement there may have been."  http://www.infowars



Signatory: Petition requesting a reinvestigation of 9/11:     
              "We want  truthful answers to question. …  As  Americans of conscience, we ask for four things:
              
An  immediate investigation by New York Attorney General Eliot Spitzer 
Immediate  investigation in Congressional Hearings. 
Media  attention to scrutinize and investigate the evidence. 
The  formation of a truly independent citizens-based inquiry." http://www.911truth.org/article 





Bio: http://www.ellsberg.net




 
 

Craig Michael Uhl, MD




Craig Michael Uhl, MD  – Former Diplomat and Desk Officer for Tanzania and Uganda, U.S. State Department.
      Former Physician, U.S. Navy, 10 year Navy career.
        
Signatory of Petition of Solidarity to the Attorney General of New York for a new independent grand jury investigation of 9/11 11/19/04:  

 "We the undersigned:  a) think that there is ample evidence and probable cause to believe  that many grave and still unresolved crimes were committed by US  officials prior to, during and after the events of 9/11;  b) observe that most of these apparent crimes, including but not  limited to abetment of mass murder, criminal negligence, insider  trading, and obstruction of justice fall well within the jurisdiction of New York's top law enforcement officials ..." http://www.justicefor911.org



Member: Veterans For 9/11 Truth  Association statement: 

 "Our mission, simply                       put, is to save the United States of America and to defend                       it from all enemies, foreign and domestic. To that end, we                       seek to restore true values, integrity, honesty, and leadership                       in government at the local, state and national level. We are                       opposed to tyranny and corruption. We seek to move this Nation                       from a state of perpetual warfare to a state of prolonged                       peace and prosperity. 

 In pursuit of our                       mission we have initially chosen to present evidence exposing                       the deception and lies that many in the military/intelligence/industrial/media                       establishment have been telling Americans and the world since                       September 11, 2001 concerning the events of that tragic day.                       Our mission includes seeking, discovering, and presenting                       evidence revealing the truth about the events of 9/11."  http://www.v911t.org




 
 

Robin Hordon


      Robin Hordon – Former FAA Air Traffic Controller at the Boston Air Route Traffic  Control Center,  located in Nashua, NH, 1970 - 1981.  FAA Certified Commercial Pilot.  FAA Certified Flight Instructor and  Certified Ground Instructor.  After leaving the FAA, he had a 12-year career in the field  of comedy ending up as artistic coordinator for "Catch A Rising Star" in Harvard Square in Cambridge, MA.
      
Statement to this website 4/10/07: "I knew within hours of the attacks on 9/11/2001 that it was  an inside job.  Based on my 11-year experience as an FAA Air Traffic Controller in the busy Northeast  corridor, including hundreds of hours of training, briefings,  air refuelings, low altitude bombing drills, being part of huge military  exercises, daily military training exercises, interacting on a routine basis  directly with NORAD radar personnel, and based on my own direct  experience dealing with in-flight emergency situations, including two instances  of hijacked commercial airliners, I state unequivocally;  There is absolutely  no way that four large commercial airliners could have flown around off course  for 30 to 60 minutes on 9/11 without being intercepted and shot completely  out of the sky by our jet fighters unless very  highly placed people in our government and our military wanted it to happen. 

 It is important for people to understand that scrambling jet fighters to  intercept aircraft showing the  signs of experiencing "IN-FLIGHT EMERGENCIES" such as going off course without  authorization, losing a transponder signal and/or losing radio contact is a  common and routine task executed jointly between the FAA and NORAD controllers. The  entire "national defense-first responder" intercept system has many highly-trained civilian and military  personnel who are committed and well-trained to this task.  FAA and NORAD   continuously monitor our skies and fighter planes and pilots are on the ready 24/7  to handle these situations.  Jet fighters typically intercept any suspect  plane over the United States  within 10 - 15 minutes of notification of a problem. 

 This type of "immediate, high speed, high  priority and emergency" scramble had been happening regularly approximately  75 - 150 times per year for ten years. ... 

 I believe that 9/11 was what is known as a "False Flag Operation" in which a country inflicts casualties upon itself, and then  blames it on an enemy that they want to go to war against.  It is one more  instance in the United States’  long history of using "False Flag Operations" and blatant propaganda to ramp-up  hostile emotions towards an enemy  in a population otherwise resistant to going to war."  Link to full statement and expanded bio 



Article 3/12/07: "When it became clear that there hadn't been a  systems failure of any kind on the morning of September 11th, Hordon  was certain that something had gone terribly wrong within the upper  echelons of authority.  A pilot (third level air carrier) as well as an  ATC, he is well versed on in-flight emergency protocol.  He is also  adamant that if these procedures had been followed on 9/11 not one of  the hijacked planes would have reached their targets. 

 "I'm sorry but American 11 should have been intercepted over southwest Connecticut—bang, done deal." ... 

 The unfathomable delays seen in military action on 9/11 are  inconceivable to those who have painstakingly investigated the  matter -- and for a man who worked for years keeping air travel over the  U.S. safe. ... 

 "I think we all have to agree that, one way or another, the U.S.  military was involved in the attacks.  The advantage that Rumsfeld had  is that he can classify, reshape, make available, make unavailable any  information that he wants, at any time and deny that information to the  public for any reason, especially national security." http://www.prisonplanet.com




 
 

Danielle O'Brien


      Danielle O'Brien - Air Traffic Controller, Dulles Tower, Washington, D.C. 
      On duty the morning of 9/11/01.
        
ABC News 20/20 6/18/04:  

 "Air traffic controller Danielle O'Brien was at the Dulles Tower outside Washington, D.C., that morning [of 9/11]. ... 

 At the Dulles tower, O'Brien saw the televised pictures from New York  and headed back to her post to help other planes quickly land. "We  started moving the planes as quickly as we could. Then I noticed the  aircraft. It was an unidentified plane to the southwest of Dulles,  moving at a very high rate of speed. I had literally a blip and nothing  more." ... 

 At a speed of about 500 mph, the plane was headed straight for what is  known as P-56, prohibited air space 56, which covers the White House  and the U.S. Capitol. 

 "The speed, the maneuverability, the way that he turned, we all  thought in the radar room, all of us experienced air traffic  controllers, that that was a military plane," said O'Brien. "You don't  fly a 757 in that manner. It's unsafe." ... 

 "This must be a fighter. This must be one of our guys sent in, scrambled  to patrol our capital, and to protect our president, and we sat back in  our chairs and breathed for just a second," said O'Brien. ... 

 "We lost radar contact with that aircraft. And we waited. And we  waited. And your heart is just beating out of your chest waiting to  hear what's happened," said O'Brien. "And then the Washington National  [Airport] controllers came over our speakers in our room and said,  'Dulles, hold all of our inbound traffic. The Pentagon's been hit.'  " http://abcnews.go.com



Editor's note: No mention of Todd Lewis', Danielle O'Brien's and other air traffic controllers belief that, because of its speed and maneuverability, the plane they observed on their radar approaching Washington  was a military plane appears in the 9/11 Commission's "full and complete account of the circumstances surrounding the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks." The 9/11 Commission Report merely states, "At 9:32 controllers at Dulles Terminal Radar Approach Control observed a primary radar target tracking eastbound at a high rate of speed." Nor is there any mention in the Report that in direct violation of FAA orders to maintain all evidence, an FAA official secretly destroyed the only audio tape made on 9./11 of the recollections of at least six air traffic controllers who had personally handled or spoken with the hijacked flights. "That manager crushed the cassette in his hand, shredded the tape and  dropped the pieces into different trash cans around the building,  according to a report made public today by the inspector general of the  Transportation Department." See Kenneth M. Mead, JD, Former Inspector General of the Department of Transportation, for additional information. 




 
 

Todd Lewis 


 Todd Lewis  - Air Traffic Controller, Dulles Tower, Washington, D.C. 
      On duty the morning of 9/11/01.
      
Dateline NBC Interview 9/11/02:  

 Todd Lewis: " One of my colleagues, saw a primary target moving quite fast   from northwest to the southeast.  So, we all started watching that target.  And   she notified the supervisor.  But nobody knew that was a commercial flight at   the time.  Nobody knew that was American 77.” 

 Tom Brokaw: “What did you think, it was a military flight of some kind – 

 Todd Lewis: “I thought it was a military flight.  I thought that Langley had scrambled some fighters and maybe one of them got up there.” 

 Tom Brokaw: “It was really moving fast.” 

 Todd Lewis: “It was moving very fast, like a military aircraft might   move at a low altitude.”
            At 1:40 of the Part 4 video segment at http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/14754701/page/0/
            Transcript also available on that page.



Editor's note: No mention of Todd Lewis', Danielle O'Brien's and other controllers belief that the plane they observed on their radar approaching Washington  was a military plane appears in the  9/11 Commission's "full and complete account of the circumstances surrounding the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks." The 9/11 Commission Report merely states, "At 9:32 controllers at Dulles Terminal Radar Approach Control observed a primary radar target tracking eastbound at a high rate of speed." Nor is there any mention in the Report that in direct violation of FAA orders to maintain all evidence, an FAA official secretly destroyed the only audio tape made on 9./11 of the recollections of at least six air traffic controllers who had personally handled or spoken with the hijacked flights. "That manager crushed the cassette in his hand, shredded the tape and  dropped the pieces into different trash cans around the building,  according to a report made public today by the inspector general of the  Transportation Department." See Kenneth M. Mead, JD, Former Inspector General of the Department of Transportation, for additional information. 




 
 

Senator Karen S. Johnson 


Senator Karen S. Johnson – Elected Member, Arizona State Legislature 1997 - present.  Chairman: Family Services Committee.  Co-Chairman: Joint Legislative Committee on Children and Family                 Services.  Member: Finance Committee,
        Appropriations Committee, and
        K-12 Education
        Committee.
      
Member: Political Leaders for 9/11 Truth Association Statement: 

 "Scholars and professionals with various kinds of expertise---including  architects, engineers, firefighters, intelligence officers, lawyers,  medical professionals, military officers, philosophers, religious  leaders, physical scientists, and pilots---have spoken out about  radical discrepancies between the official account of the 9/11 attacks  and what they, as independent researchers, have learned. 

 They  have established beyond any reasonable doubt that the official account  of 9/11 is false and that, therefore, the official “investigations”  have really been cover-up operations. 

 Thus far, however, there  has been no response from political leaders in Washington or, for that  matter, in other capitals around the world. Our organization, Political  Leaders for 9/11 Truth, has been formed to help bring about such a  response. 

 We believe that the truth about 9/11 needs to be  exposed now---not in 50 years as a footnote in the history books---so  the policies that have been based on the Bush-Cheney administration’s  interpretation of the 9/11 attacks can be changed. 

 We are,  therefore, calling for a new, independent investigation of 9/11 that  takes account of evidence that has been documented by independent  researchers but thus far ignored by governments and the mainstream  media."



We Deserve the Full Truth about 9/11  Letter to the Editor, The Arizona Republic 5/3/08: 

 "After three government investigations and more than six years, we still don't have answers on 9/11. 

 Why, for example, did Building 7 collapse? It wasn't hit by a plane, as  the towers were. The 9/11 Commission Report completely ignores Building  7. The Federal Emergency Management Agency report discounts fire as a  cause and concludes that the reasons for the collapse of Building 7 are  unknown and require further research. But when FEMA issued this report,  it already cleared the site and disposed of the dust and steel  (evidence from a crime scene), thus possibly committing a felony and  complicating any "further research." 
        

 The National Institute of Standards and Technology, a federal agency,  which evaluated the collapse of the towers, has yet to issue its report  on Building 7. "We've had trouble getting a handle on Building 7," said  the acting director of their Building and Fire Research Lab. 



Yet a number of private-sector engineers, architects, and demolition  experts have not had that problem. They think Building 7 came down by  controlled demolition. The building collapsed suddenly, straight down,  at nearly free-fall speed. People heard the explosions, and saw the  squibs and the characteristic billowing clouds of pulverized concrete  so unique to demolitions. There is no reason to think that Building 7  came down for any other reason than explosive demolition.
        



And speaking of pulverized concrete, fire does not pulverize concrete.  Even the collapse of one floor upon another wouldn't pulverize concrete  the way the Twin Towers disintegrated. 
        



Think back to that day: Those towers didn't just fall down. If they  had, we would have had huge chunks of concrete breaking apart and  falling into a massive pile of rubble. The buildings likely would have  toppled erratically sideways and left a much larger pile of debris.
        



But that's not what we witnessed. The towers didn't collapse - they disintegrated.
        



We watched them explode into dust, not knowing exactly what we were  seeing. Very little intact concrete was found in the rubble. The sheer  energy required to pulverize that much concrete into dust can only come  from an explosive process.
        



Reputable scientists, engineers, architects and firemen with no  political angle dispute the 9/11 Commission report and say that the  evidence indicates the Twin Towers and Building 7 came down due to  controlled-demolition explosions. Tests corroborate the presence of  thermite, an explosive used in building demolitions, at the site of the  Twin Towers and Building 7. 
        



Thermite also explains the pools of molten steel in the basement, which  no one has been able to otherwise explain and which the National  Institute of Standards and Technology simply denies. Why is the  government refusing to even consider demolition as a possibility? What  are they afraid of?
        


Time magazine  reported in September 2006 that 36 percent of Americans believe the  government was complicit in 9/11. A Zogby poll reported that 51 percent  of Americans want Congress to investigate 9/11 further. 
        

 Even the co-chairmen of the 9/11 Commission are upset with the  commission report. They have accused the CIA and the military of  "obstructing" the investigation. Former Commissioner Max Cleland resigned, stating that the Commission was "compromised." Former FBI  Director Louis Freeh has criticized the report for its inaccuracies and  unanswered questions.
        

 The events of 9/11 have never been properly investigated. It's about time they were." http://www.azcentral.com



Statement in support of Architects and Engineers petition:  
          "More than six years after 9/11, we still have not had a thorough  investigation of the causes of that tragedy.  I am so impressed by the  research of Dr. Steven Jones, Frank Legge, Tony Szamboti, David Ray  Griffin, and many others.  My concern deepens every time I read a new  article.  As the evidence of controlled demolition mounts, my desire  for a new investigation increases.  I want to add my voice to the voices  of AE for 911 Truth."  http://www.ae911truth.org



Signatory: Petition requesting a reinvestigation of 9/11, signed by more than 1,500 Architects and Engineers: 

 "On Behalf of the People of the United States of America, the     undersigned Architects and Engineers for 9/11 Truth and     affiliates  hereby petition for, and demand, a truly     independent investigation with subpoena power in order to     uncover the full truth surrounding the events of 9/11/01 -     specifically the collapse of the World Trade Center Towers and     Building 7.  We believe that there is sufficient doubt about     the official story and therefore that the 9/11 investigation     must be re-opened and must include a full inquiry into the     possible use of explosives that may have been the actual cause     behind the destruction of the World Trade Center Towers and     WTC Building 7." http://www.ae911truth.org/joinus.php



Editor's note: WTC Building 7 was 610 feet tall, 47 stories.  It would have been the tallest building in 33 states.  Although it was not hit by an airplane, it  completely collapsed into a pile of rubble in less than 7 seconds at 5:20 p.m. on 9/11, seven hours after the collapses of the Twin Towers.  However, no mention of its collapse appears in the 9/11 Commission's "full and complete account of the circumstances surrounding the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks."  Watch the collapse video here.  And six years after 9/11, the Federal government has yet to publish its promised final report that explains the cause of its collapse.



Website: http://www.azleg.gov




 
 

Rep. Suzi Wizowaty, MA 


Rep. Suzi Wizowaty, MA – Member, House of Representatives, State Legislature of Vermont   2008 -  present.  Member, Health Care Committee.  
        Adjunct Instructor, Division of Communication & Creative Media, Champlain College.
        Member of the Graduate Adjunct Faculty, St. Michael's College. Author of A Tour of Evil (2005), The Round Barn (2002)
        
Personal statement in support of the Political Leaders petition for a new 9/11 investigation: 

 "There are too many contradictions and too many unanswered questions not to pursue a fuller investigation." http://pl911truth.com



Member: Political Leaders for 9/11 Truth Association Statement: 

 "Scholars and professionals with various kinds of expertise---including  architects, engineers, firefighters, intelligence officers, lawyers,  medical professionals, military officers, philosophers, religious  leaders, physical scientists, and pilots---have spoken out about  radical discrepancies between the official account of the 9/11 attacks  and what they, as independent researchers, have learned. 

 They  have established beyond any reasonable doubt that the official account  of 9/11 is false and that, therefore, the official “investigations”  have really been cover-up operations. 

 Thus far, however, there  has been no response from political leaders in Washington or, for that  matter, in other capitals around the world. Our organization, Political  Leaders for 9/11 Truth, has been formed to help bring about such a  response. 

 We believe that the truth about 9/11 needs to be  exposed now---not in 50 years as a footnote in the history books---so  the policies that have been based on the Bush-Cheney administration’s  interpretation of the 9/11 attacks can be changed. 

 We are,  therefore, calling for a new, independent investigation of 9/11 that  takes account of evidence that has been documented by independent  researchers but thus far ignored by governments and the mainstream  media."




 
 

Rep. Charles F. Weed


Rep. Charles F. Weed  – Member, House of Representatives, State Legislature of New Hampshire   2000 -  present.  Member, Labor, Industrial and Rehabilitative Services  Committee.  Professor of Political Science, Keene State College 1972 - present.
        
Endorser: Vote For Answers New Hampshire Statement: 

 "As current and former public servants, it is our duty to raise our  voice with those from across the country and around the world to call  attention to the omissions and falsehoods in the official account of  the events of September 11, 2001.  The good people of New Hampshire are  asked to sacrifice ever more in the War on Terrorism and yet there has  been no true investigation into the events of September 11th for which  this war is being fought.  So long as our policies continue to be based  on those tragic events, it will never be too late for honest answers to  reasonable questions that to this day go unanswered.  In defense of our  nation and in defense of freedom itself, we must get to the bottom of  what happened."



Personal statement in support of the Political Leaders petition for a new 9/11 investigation: 

 "The 'official' versions of events occurring on 9/11 do not hold up to  empirical scrutiny. A real investigation with qualified special  prosecutors--holding subpoena power--is essential for legitimating the  US government, and getting beyond the abuses of the Bush Administration." http://pl911truth.com



Member: Political Leaders for 9/11 Truth Association Statement: 

 "Scholars and professionals with various kinds of expertise---including  architects, engineers, firefighters, intelligence officers, lawyers,  medical professionals, military officers, philosophers, religious  leaders, physical scientists, and pilots---have spoken out about  radical discrepancies between the official account of the 9/11 attacks  and what they, as independent researchers, have learned. 

 They  have established beyond any reasonable doubt that the official account  of 9/11 is false and that, therefore, the official “investigations”  have really been cover-up operations. 

 Thus far, however, there  has been no response from political leaders in Washington or, for that  matter, in other capitals around the world. Our organization, Political  Leaders for 9/11 Truth, has been formed to help bring about such a  response. 

 We believe that the truth about 9/11 needs to be  exposed now---not in 50 years as a footnote in the history books---so  the policies that have been based on the Bush-Cheney administration’s  interpretation of the 9/11 attacks can be changed. 

 We are,  therefore, calling for a new, independent investigation of 9/11 that  takes account of evidence that has been documented by independent  researchers but thus far ignored by governments and the mainstream  media."




 
 

Rep. Barbara Hull Richardson


Rep. Barbara Hull Richardson – Member, House of Representatives, State Legislature of New Hampshire   1992 - present.  Vice Chairman, Children and Family Law Committee. Retired Social Worker and Social Work Administrator, State of New Hampshire 1973 - 1991.
        
Endorser: Vote For Answers New Hampshire Statement: 

 "As current and former public servants, it is our duty to raise our  voice with those from across the country and around the world to call  attention to the omissions and falsehoods in the official account of  the events of September 11, 2001.  The good people of New Hampshire are  asked to sacrifice ever more in the War on Terrorism and yet there has  been no true investigation into the events of September 11th for which  this war is being fought.  So long as our policies continue to be based  on those tragic events, it will never be too late for honest answers to  reasonable questions that to this day go unanswered.  In defense of our  nation and in defense of freedom itself, we must get to the bottom of  what happened."



Member: Political Leaders for 9/11 Truth Association Statement: 

 "Scholars and professionals with various kinds of expertise---including  architects, engineers, firefighters, intelligence officers, lawyers,  medical professionals, military officers, philosophers, religious  leaders, physical scientists, and pilots---have spoken out about  radical discrepancies between the official account of the 9/11 attacks  and what they, as independent researchers, have learned. 

 They  have established beyond any reasonable doubt that the official account  of 9/11 is false and that, therefore, the official “investigations”  have really been cover-up operations. 

 Thus far, however, there  has been no response from political leaders in Washington or, for that  matter, in other capitals around the world. Our organization, Political  Leaders for 9/11 Truth, has been formed to help bring about such a  response. 

 We believe that the truth about 9/11 needs to be  exposed now---not in 50 years as a footnote in the history books---so  the policies that have been based on the Bush-Cheney administration’s  interpretation of the 9/11 attacks can be changed. 

 We are,  therefore, calling for a new, independent investigation of 9/11 that  takes account of evidence that has been documented by independent  researchers but thus far ignored by governments and the mainstream  media."




 
 

Rep. Peter S. Espiefs, JD 


Rep. Peter S. Espiefs, JD – Former Member, House of Representatives, State Legislature of New Hampshire   2000 - 2008. Former Member of the Judiciary Committee, the Ways and Means Committee, the Right to  Know Oversight Commission, and the Medical Malpractice and Insurance  Oversight Committee. Retired Attorney. Retired Probate Court Judge (20 years). Former Attorney, Office of General Counsel, U.S. Department of Agriculture.  Former Instructor, Business Law and Political Science, Franklin Pierce College. Former Instructor,  Business Law, Keene State College.
        Former Infantry Officer, U.S. Army.
        
Endorser: Vote For Answers New Hampshire Statement: 

 "As current and former public servants, it is our duty to raise our  voice with those from across the country and around the world to call  attention to the omissions and falsehoods in the official account of  the events of September 11, 2001.  The good people of New Hampshire are  asked to sacrifice ever more in the War on Terrorism and yet there has  been no true investigation into the events of September 11th for which  this war is being fought.  So long as our policies continue to be based  on those tragic events, it will never be too late for honest answers to  reasonable questions that to this day go unanswered.  In defense of our  nation and in defense of freedom itself, we must get to the bottom of  what happened."



Member: Political Leaders for 9/11 Truth Association Statement: 

 "Scholars and professionals with various kinds of expertise---including  architects, engineers, firefighters, intelligence officers, lawyers,  medical professionals, military officers, philosophers, religious  leaders, physical scientists, and pilots---have spoken out about  radical discrepancies between the official account of the 9/11 attacks  and what they, as independent researchers, have learned. 

 They  have established beyond any reasonable doubt that the official account  of 9/11 is false and that, therefore, the official “investigations”  have really been cover-up operations. 

 Thus far, however, there  has been no response from political leaders in Washington or, for that  matter, in other capitals around the world. Our organization, Political  Leaders for 9/11 Truth, has been formed to help bring about such a  response. 

 We believe that the truth about 9/11 needs to be  exposed now---not in 50 years as a footnote in the history books---so  the policies that have been based on the Bush-Cheney administration’s  interpretation of the 9/11 attacks can be changed. 

 We are,  therefore, calling for a new, independent investigation of 9/11 that  takes account of evidence that has been documented by independent  researchers but thus far ignored by governments and the mainstream  media."




 
 

Rep. Betty B. Hall


Rep. Betty B. Hall – Former Member, House of Representatives, State Legislature of New Hampshire 1978 - 2002. Member and former Chair, Hollis/Brookline School Board (COOP), 2004 - present, 1963 - 1971.
        
Endorser: Vote For Answers New Hampshire Statement: 

 "As current and former public servants, it is our duty to raise our  voice with those from across the country and around the world to call  attention to the omissions and falsehoods in the official account of  the events of September 11, 2001.  The good people of New Hampshire are  asked to sacrifice ever more in the War on Terrorism and yet there has  been no true investigation into the events of September 11th for which  this war is being fought.  So long as our policies continue to be based  on those tragic events, it will never be too late for honest answers to  reasonable questions that to this day go unanswered.  In defense of our  nation and in defense of freedom itself, we must get to the bottom of  what happened."



Member: Political Leaders for 9/11 Truth Association Statement: 

 "Scholars and professionals with various kinds of expertise---including  architects, engineers, firefighters, intelligence officers, lawyers,  medical professionals, military officers, philosophers, religious  leaders, physical scientists, and pilots---have spoken out about  radical discrepancies between the official account of the 9/11 attacks  and what they, as independent researchers, have learned. 

 They  have established beyond any reasonable doubt that the official account  of 9/11 is false and that, therefore, the official “investigations”  have really been cover-up operations. 

 Thus far, however, there  has been no response from political leaders in Washington or, for that  matter, in other capitals around the world. Our organization, Political  Leaders for 9/11 Truth, has been formed to help bring about such a  response. 

 We believe that the truth about 9/11 needs to be  exposed now---not in 50 years as a footnote in the history books---so  the policies that have been based on the Bush-Cheney administration’s  interpretation of the 9/11 attacks can be changed. 

 We are,  therefore, calling for a new, independent investigation of 9/11 that  takes account of evidence that has been documented by independent  researchers but thus far ignored by governments and the mainstream  media."




 
 

Rep. Peter H. Allen, PhD



Rep. Peter H. Allen, PhD  – Member, House of Representatives, State Legislature of New Hampshire   2000 - present. Member, Committee on Environment and Agriculture. Former Senator, New Hampshire State Senate 1971 - 1972, 1978 - 1980. Retired Forestry Ecologist. Former Ecologist, New Hampshire Water Supply and Pollution Control Commission. Former State Research Forester, New Hampshire Division of Forests and Lands.
Former Research Forest Ecologist, United States Forest Service. Former Assistant Professor, Colby-Sawyer College.


Endorser: Vote For Answers New Hampshire Statement: 

 "As current and former public servants, it is our duty to raise our  voice with those from across the country and around the world to call  attention to the omissions and falsehoods in the official account of  the events of September 11, 2001.  The good people of New Hampshire are  asked to sacrifice ever more in the War on Terrorism and yet there has  been no true investigation into the events of September 11th for which  this war is being fought.  So long as our policies continue to be based  on those tragic events, it will never be too late for honest answers to  reasonable questions that to this day go unanswered.  In defense of our  nation and in defense of freedom itself, we must get to the bottom of  what happened."



Member: Political Leaders for 9/11 Truth Association Statement: 

 "Scholars and professionals with various kinds of expertise---including  architects, engineers, firefighters, intelligence officers, lawyers,  medical professionals, military officers, philosophers, religious  leaders, physical scientists, and pilots---have spoken out about  radical discrepancies between the official account of the 9/11 attacks  and what they, as independent researchers, have learned. 

 They  have established beyond any reasonable doubt that the official account  of 9/11 is false and that, therefore, the official “investigations”  have really been cover-up operations. 

 Thus far, however, there  has been no response from political leaders in Washington or, for that  matter, in other capitals around the world. Our organization, Political  Leaders for 9/11 Truth, has been formed to help bring about such a  response. 

 We believe that the truth about 9/11 needs to be  exposed now---not in 50 years as a footnote in the history books---so  the policies that have been based on the Bush-Cheney administration’s  interpretation of the 9/11 attacks can be changed. 

 We are,  therefore, calling for a new, independent investigation of 9/11 that  takes account of evidence that has been documented by independent  researchers but thus far ignored by governments and the mainstream  media."




 
 

Rep. Paul Harrington 



Rep. Paul Harrington – Former Member, House of Representatives, State Legislature of New Hampshire.


Endorser: Vote For Answers New Hampshire Statement: 

 "As current and former public servants, it is our duty to raise our  voice with those from across the country and around the world to call  attention to the omissions and falsehoods in the official account of  the events of September 11, 2001.  The good people of New Hampshire are  asked to sacrifice ever more in the War on Terrorism and yet there has  been no true investigation into the events of September 11th for which  this war is being fought.  So long as our policies continue to be based  on those tragic events, it will never be too late for honest answers to  reasonable questions that to this day go unanswered.  In defense of our  nation and in defense of freedom itself, we must get to the bottom of  what happened."




 
 

Simcha Felder, MBA, CPA 


      Simcha Felder, MBA, CPA   – Member of the City Council and Chair of the Committee on Governmental Operations, New York City.
      Also serves as a Member of the following committees: Sanitation & Solid Waste Management; Education; Land Use; Mental Health, Mental Retardation,  Alcoholism, Drug Abuse & Disability Services; Zoning &  Franchises. Previous governmental experience includes working for the New York State  Assembly; the Comptroller of the City of New York; and as a tax auditor  for the New York City Department of Finance.  Former Professor of Management at Touro College and City University of New York, Brooklyn College.
      
Signatory, New York City Ballot Initiative for a new investigation into 9/11 11/09: "Petition to Create a NYC Independent Commission with Subpoena Power to Conduct a
          Comprehensive and Fact-Driven Investigation of All Relevant Aspects of the Tragic Events of
          September 11, 2001 and Issue a Report. 

 WHEREAS, many New York City voters believe that there remain many unanswered questions critical to establishing the truth
          about all relevant events leading up to, during and subsequent to the tragic attacks occurring on September 11, 2001 (“9/11”), and 

 WHEREAS, no prior investigation by any New York City agency or any other governmental entity has resulted in the citizens
          being provided with those critical answers or information necessary to establish the truth about those tragic events, ... 

 An independent, temporary New York City commission (the “Commission”) is hereby created to conduct a comprehensive, factdriven investigation into the events that took place on 9/11, as well as to thoroughly examine related events before and after the attacks, including any activities attempting to hide, cover up, impede or obstruct any investigation into these 9/11 events, following
        wherever the facts may lead. The Commission shall publish one or more reports of their findings." 



Website: http://council.nyc.gov/d44/html/members/home.shtml




 
 

Jonathan Weisbuch, MD, MPH



      Jonathan B. Weisbuch, BS Civil/Sanitary Eng, MD, MPH  – Director, Department of Health and Social Services, State of Wyoming 1987 - 1989.  Former Health Officer, State of North Dakota 1976 - 1980.  Former Director of Correctional Health Services, State of Massachusetts 1974 - 1976. Former Chief Health Officer, Maricopa County, and Director, Maricopa  County Public Health Department 1997 - 2004.  Medical Director, Los Angeles  County Department of Health Services 1989 -1995. 

 Past President and Past Vice President, American Association of Public Health Physicians (AAPHP) and AAPHP's representative to the American Medical Association.  Recipient of the Ben Freedman Award for 'long and dedicated service to AAPHP and the practice of Public Health'.  Chair, National Commission on Correctional Health Care 1998 - 1999.  Diplomate, American Board of Preventive Medicine.  Fellow, American College of Preventive Medicine.  Former Officer, U.S. Navy.  Editorial  Consultant, American Journal of Public Health.  Associate  Editor, Journal of Public Health Policy 1980 - 1984.  Author of more than 40 articles pertaining to public health issues.  Co-author, The Challenges of Community Medicine (1974). 

 Dr. Weisbuch's extensive academic experience includes:
      
Adjunct  Professor, Arizona State University,  College of Human Evolution and Social Change
Clinical Professor, Public Health  and Epidemiology Southwestern College  of Naturopathic Medicine 
Executive  Coordinator for Global Health and Adjunct Professor, Arizona State University, Biodesign  Institute and College   of Human Evolution and  Social Change 
Associate Chairman and  Assistant Professor, Department  of Community Medicine, Boston University   School of Medicine
Clinical Associate Professor, Department  of Preventive Medicine, University  of Arizona School of Medicine / Public Health
Adjunct Professor, School of Business Administration, Arizona  State University
Adjunct Professor, Midwestern University, Arizona College of Osteopathic Medicine
Clinical Professor, Department of Family Medicine, University of Southern California School of Medicine
Clinical Professor, Dept  of Medicine, UCLA School of Medicine and School of Public Health
Office of the Dean, Charles Drew School of Medicine
Clinical Professor, Department  of Community Medicine, University  of North Dakota School of Medicine
Assistant Professor, Department of Community Medicine, University of Kentucky School of Medicine. 


Review of The 9/11 Commission Report: Omissions and Distortions 1/14/07: "David Griffin's analysis of the Kean-Zelikow bipartisan Report of the  events leading up to the highjackings of four aircraft on September 11,  2001, is a "must read" for anyone concerned with the subsequent history  of the Bush Administration and the "War on Terror." All may not be as  we initially were lead to believe: That fundamental Muslims with the  desire to bring down America, plotted a massive terror event that  culminated in the plane crashes into the World Trade Center, the  Pentagon and the fields of Pennsylvania. This conventional wisdom,  supported by the media reporting immediately following the catastrophe,  and subsequently "documented" by the Kean-Zelikow Report as analyzed in  detail by Dr. Griffin is shown to be laced with omissions of fact,  distortions of events, and the rewriting of the history leading to and  during September 11, 2001. ..." http://www.amazon.com



Bio: http://www.ssbn630.org/id118.html




 
 


Herbert J. Hoffman, MA, PhD


Herbert J. Hoffman, MA, PhD  – Former Chief Mental Health Coordinator and Director of Manpower Development   and Training, Massachusetts Department of Mental  Health.
      Retired Clinical Psychologist.  In his 40-year career, Dr. Hoffman held several academic and senior professional positions, including; Lecturer (Psychology), Boston University.  Lecturer on  Education, Harvard Graduate School of Education.  Assistant Professor of  Research, Heller Graduate School for  Advanced
      Studies in  Social Welfare, Brandeis University.  Founder and Faculty Member, Massachusetts School of Professional Psychology.  Executive Director, Brookline (MA) Mental Health  Association. 
      Veteran, U.S. Army.
      
Statement in support of Medical Professionals petition for Reinvestigation of 9/11: 

 "I have been following the 9/11   "story" for over 7 years.  The most significant impediment for citizens   even considering that the U.S. government is in some way complicit is the   unwillingness to entertain that possibility.  The fact that the government   and the 9/11 Commission Report could not/would not address certain questions   raised by the Jersey Girls, scientists, pilots etc., questions which would seem   to have easily available factual responses, strongly suggests "cover up."  

 I refer to such items as:  release of the Pentagon and other videos of the   Pentagon crash; explanation of the debris scatter at the PA "crash" site;   explanation of how these obviously "hijacked" airliners were not intercepted in   a timely fashion -- especially the one in DC; a more evidence-based,   scientific explanation of the fall of the twin towers and Building 7.  

 The failure to produce this information/evidence, along with much more, can   only lead to one conclusion:  THERE IS A COVER UP.  There is much data   to strongly suggest who and what are being protected and shielded by this cover   up.  Hopefully a sufficient number of citizens will shed their denial and   demand answers and explanations from our nations leaders." 



Member: Medical Professionals for 9/11 Truth Association Statement: 

 "As medical professionals, we are trained in science and logical reasoning. We  are appalled by the lack of scientific rigor and the substantial omissions and blatant distortions in the official account of 9/11 as embodied in the 9/11 Commission Report and related government documents. We join with other organizations of professionals, such as Architects and Engineers for 9/11 Truth, Pilots for 9/11 Truth, Firefighters for 9/11 Truth, and Lawyers for 9/11 Truth, and millions of individual citizens in demanding a thorough, impartial, open and transparent reinvestigation of the terrorist acts of 9/11."



Signatory: War Is Illegal Petition 12/07, which states: 

 "Against a background of escalating ecological crises, and the fact that  large parts of the world´s population are being exposed to extreme  poverty, inhuman working conditions and increasing social tensions, the  annual global military expenditure has risen to more than 1,000 billion  dollars. 

 The military-industrial complex of just a few G8 countries  is responsible for the overwhelming part of this spending, causing  incalculable social and ecological consequences. 

 Unequal  distribution of global resources, increasingly controlled by large  multinational companies, global debt policy and unfair international  trading practices ultimately could not be maintained without military  security. In many countries the military is used to repress critical  opposition. 

 The terror attacks of September 11, 2001 are increasingly used to  justify systematic surveillance and the dismantling of constitutional  rights.  [Bold added for emphasis by Editor of this website.]  Even European countries have helped to establish Guantanomo-like secret  prisons, where torture in all probability takes place. 

 Iraq was attacked based on falsified evidence causing the death of  hundreds of thousands of people, widespread destruction,  destabilization and contamination with cancer-causing depleted uranium  munitions. 

 Now plans to attack Iran and the possibility of a new World War have  been made public, meeting resistance even from moderate elements within  the military due to the unforeseeable consequences. 

 Faced with the choice between a war, that according to some western  leaders, will last for many years or a possible peaceful transformation  we support the following demands: ... 

 International investigation of the September 11, 2001 terror attacks.  They are used as the central justification for the "War on Terror", but  well documented evidence shows that the official explanation of 9/11  cannot be correct.  International personalities in science, politics,  and culture, including high-ranking military veterans, have called for  a new investigation." [Bold added for emphasis by Editor of this website.]  The full text of the petition is available at http://www.war-is-illegal.org




 
 

Philip J. Berg 


      Philip J. Berg, Esquire – Former    Deputy Attorney General, State of Pennsylvania.
      
      
Article 10/29/04: "The official story of what actually took place on  9-11 is a lie." http://www.americanfreepress.net



Interviewed in the documentary film Zero: An Investigation Into 9/11  10/26/07:  

 "There is no question in my mind that those buildings, based on the laws of physics, could not have collapsed without the assistance of a bomb.".



Statement 1/4/07: "Berg continued  there is  overwhelming evidence that: "Bush and his cronies  made 9/11 happen or let it happen.   And, if they let it happen, then they made it happen.  Either way, they are responsible; and more  important, they have completely and unequivocally covered-it-up!" MS Word doc at http://www.911forthetruth.com/pdfs/PR_01042007.doc



Signatory: Petition requesting a reinvestigation of 9/11:     
          "We want  truthful answers to question. …  As  Americans of conscience, we ask for four things: 

An  immediate investigation by New York Attorney General Eliot Spitzer 
Immediate  investigation in Congressional Hearings. 
Media  attention to scrutinize and investigate the evidence. 
The  formation of a truly independent citizens-based inquiry." http://www.911truth.org/article.php




Member:  Scholars for 9/11 Truth and Justice   Association Statement: "Scholars for 9/11 Truth and Justice is a non-partisan organization consisting  of independent researchers and activists engaged  in uncovering the true nature of the September 11, 2001 attacks."



Bio:  http://www.911forthetruth.com




 
 

Roy H. Andes, MA, JD 


Roy H. Andes, MA, JD – Former Assistant Attorney General, State of Montana.  
      
Statement in support of Architects and Engineers petition: 



"As an attorney who is meticulously attentive to issues of evidence and  proof, and one very-little inclined to conspiracy theories, I was  profoundly skeptical when a friend asked me to view Richard Gage's  "Blueprint for Truth" with him.  Over the course of that two-hour  viewing, however, I became convinced that there is substance to Mr.  Gage's conclusions, and that they deserve serious attention from  appropriate authorities.  That this may have happened, causes me grave  concern for our country.  Under the circumstances, I am not sure to what  authorities we can entrust this matter and its attendant consequences."  http://www.ae911truth.org



Signatory: Petition requesting a reinvestigation of 9/11, signed by more than 1,500 Architects and Engineers: 

 "On Behalf of the People of the United States of America, the     undersigned Architects and Engineers for 9/11 Truth and     affiliates  hereby petition for, and demand, a truly     independent investigation with subpoena power in order to     uncover the full truth surrounding the events of 9/11/01 -     specifically the collapse of the World Trade Center Towers and     Building 7.  We believe that there is sufficient doubt about     the official story and therefore that the 9/11 investigation     must be re-opened and must include a full inquiry into the     possible use of explosives that may have been the actual cause     behind the destruction of the World Trade Center Towers and     WTC Building 7." http://www.ae911truth.org/joinus.php



Editor's note: WTC Building 7 was 610 feet tall, 47 stories.  It would have been the tallest building in 33 states.  Although it was not hit by an airplane, it  completely collapsed into a pile of rubble in less than 7 seconds at 5:20 p.m. on 9/11, seven hours after the collapses of the Twin Towers.  However, no mention of its collapse appears in the 9/11 Commission's "full and complete account of the circumstances surrounding the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks."  Watch the collapse video here.  And six years after 9/11, the Federal government has yet to publish its promised final report that explains the cause of its collapse.



Signatory: Lawyers for 9/11 Truth petition requesting a reinvestigation of 9/11: 

 "Lawyers are trained to value the Constitution and the rule of law. 

 We  are trained to examine evidence and to spot cover-ups or  inconsistencies in the evidence and bias in witnesses or  decision-makers. 

 Attorneys are also experts in weighing conflicting evidence. 

 For all of the above reasons, many  lawyers have concluded that the 9/11 Commission and other government  examinations were wholly inadequate, and did not follow proper rules of  evidence or procedure. 

 We are demanding an end to the 9/11  cover-up, and a full investigation by unbiased people with subpoena  power ... and the courage to demand that the Constitution and rule of  law are followed, and all guilty persons held accountable for their  actions. 

 The following legal scholars,  judges and attorneys demand an end to the 9/11 cover-up, a new, full  and unbiased investigation, and punishment of all guilty parties." http://www.l911t.com 



Bio: http://www.collaborationinstitute.com/bio-roy.htm




 
 
Donald R. Bustion, JD 
        No photo available 


      Donald R. Bustion, JD  – Former Assistant Attorney General, State of Texas.
      
Adjunct Professor, Political Science, Southern Arkansas University. 
      
Member: Political Leaders for 9/11 Truth Association Statement: 

 "Scholars and professionals with various kinds of expertise---including  architects, engineers, firefighters, intelligence officers, lawyers,  medical professionals, military officers, philosophers, religious  leaders, physical scientists, and pilots---have spoken out about  radical discrepancies between the official account of the 9/11 attacks  and what they, as independent researchers, have learned. 

 They  have established beyond any reasonable doubt that the official account  of 9/11 is false and that, therefore, the official “investigations”  have really been cover-up operations. 

 Thus far, however, there  has been no response from political leaders in Washington or, for that  matter, in other capitals around the world. Our organization, Political  Leaders for 9/11 Truth, has been formed to help bring about such a  response. 

 We believe that the truth about 9/11 needs to be  exposed now---not in 50 years as a footnote in the history books---so  the policies that have been based on the Bush-Cheney administration’s  interpretation of the 9/11 attacks can be changed. 

 We are,  therefore, calling for a new, independent investigation of 9/11 that  takes account of evidence that has been documented by independent  researchers but thus far ignored by governments and the mainstream  media."



Member:  Scholars for 9/11 Truth and Justice   Association Statement: "Scholars for 9/11 Truth and Justice is a non-partisan organization consisting  of independent researchers and activists engaged  in uncovering the true nature of the September 11, 2001 attacks."




 
 
 
 
David E. Bauer, JD 
        No photo available



      David E. Bauer, JD  – Former Assistant Attorney General, State of Maine (1989-1991) and   General Counsel of the State of Maine Bureau of Revenue Services   (formerly Bureau of Taxation), 1991-2005.
      
Statement in support of Architects and Engineers petition: 

 "I have studied the available evidence carefully and it is obvious to me   that the buildings did not collapse simply because of fire. Even without   all the technical evidence, including evidence of thermite, etc. common   sense tells anyone viewing videos of the collapses with an open mind   that explosives were used. The massive amounts of ejecta and dust cannot   be explained otherwise."  http://www.ae911truth.org



Signatory: Petition requesting a reinvestigation of 9/11, signed by more than 1,500 Architects and Engineers: 

 "On Behalf of the People of the United States of America, the     undersigned Architects and Engineers for 9/11 Truth and     affiliates  hereby petition for, and demand, a truly     independent investigation with subpoena power in order to     uncover the full truth surrounding the events of 9/11/01 -     specifically the collapse of the World Trade Center Towers and     Building 7.  We believe that there is sufficient doubt about     the official story and therefore that the 9/11 investigation     must be re-opened and must include a full inquiry into the     possible use of explosives that may have been the actual cause     behind the destruction of the World Trade Center Towers and     WTC Building 7." http://www.ae911truth.org/joinus.php

 
Editor's note: WTC Building 7 was 610 feet tall, 47 stories.  It would have been the tallest building in 33 states.  Although it was not hit by an airplane, it  completely collapsed into a pile of rubble in less than 7 seconds at 5:20 p.m. on 9/11, seven hours after the collapses of the Twin Towers.  However, no mention of its collapse appears in the 9/11 Commission's "full and complete account of the circumstances surrounding the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks."  Watch the collapse video here.  And six years after 9/11, the Federal government has yet to publish its promised final report that explains the cause of its collapse.




 
 
 
 
Michael Mennard, PhD
        No photo available 


Michael Mennard, PhD – Retired career Foreign Service Officer, U.S. State Department.  Served as Regional Public Affairs Officer in India.  Contributing author to The Suppressed Serbian          Voice and the Free Press in America (1994) 

Statement to this website 5/6/07: "I am    concerned about the numerous inconsistencies in the official account of 9/11.  I support a new investigation regarding the tragic events of that day, the events leading up to it, and subsequent efforts to ignore the whole matter."



Signatory of Petition to Release Information Pertaining to 9/11 10/5/06: "We, the undersigned, demand the immediate declassification and release  of:
              
 all transcripts and documents relating to the July 10, 2001 meeting  that took place between former CIA Director George Tenet and then  National Security Advisor, Condoleezza Rice. It has been alleged that  this urgent and out-of-the-ordinary meeting was called to discuss the  increasingly dire warnings of an imminent al Qaeda attack within the  U.S. ... 
the redacted 28 pages of the Joint Inquiry Into The Terrorist Attacks of September 11, 2001 (JICI), and 
the CIA Inspector General’s report, CIA Accountability With Respect To The 9/11 Attacks




The disastrous nature of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks  warrant the release of all of this information so that the American  public may learn what its government did or did not do to protect them.  Had this nation been properly warned of the looming and imminent  terrorist threat, life saving choices could have been made that day." http://www.petitiononline.com/july10/




 
 
 
 
William R. Nugent, B EE, PE
        No photo available 


      William R. Nugent, B EE, PE  – Retired Assistant Director of Research at the Library of Congress' Information  Technology Services (22 years of service).  Served in a variety of positions at the Library, including Director of Technology of the Center for Innovative  Management and Technology and as Assistant Director of Automated  Systems.
       Licensed Professional Electrical Engineer, State of Massachusetts.
      Author of The Preservation and Archiving of Digital Information: A Handbook for Curators (1997).
      
Statement in support of Architects and Engineers petition: "Controlled demolition is the only scientifically plausible explanation  of the collapses of the three buildings.  Recall that in 1945 a 10-ton  U.S. B-25 bomber hit the 79th floor of the much older Empire State  Building.  The building remained and remains fully intact though 3 crew  members and 11 office workers died.  The 9-11 investigations were  scientifically shoddy and much important evidence was prematurely  disposed of.  A fresh and unbiased investigation is urgently required of
              this, our 'new Pearl Harbor'."  http://www.ae911truth.org



Signatory: Petition requesting a reinvestigation of 9/11, signed by more than 1,500 Architects and Engineers: 

 "On Behalf of the People of the United States of America, the     undersigned Architects and Engineers for 9/11 Truth and     affiliates  hereby petition for, and demand, a truly     independent investigation with subpoena power in order to     uncover the full truth surrounding the events of 9/11/01 -     specifically the collapse of the World Trade Center Towers and     Building 7.  We believe that there is sufficient doubt about     the official story and therefore that the 9/11 investigation     must be re-opened and must include a full inquiry into the     possible use of explosives that may have been the actual cause     behind the destruction of the World Trade Center Towers and     WTC Building 7." http://www.ae911truth.org/joinus.php



Editor's note: WTC Building 7 was 610 feet tall, 47 stories.  It would have been the tallest building in 33 states.  Although it was not hit by an airplane, it  completely collapsed into a pile of rubble in less than 7 seconds at 5:20 p.m. on 9/11, seven hours after the collapses of the Twin Towers.  However, no mention of its collapse appears in the 9/11 Commission's "full and complete account of the circumstances surrounding the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks."  Watch the collapse video here.  And six years after 9/11, the Federal government has yet to publish its promised final report that explains the cause of its collapse.



Signatory of Petition of Solidarity to the Attorney General of New York for a new independent grand jury investigation of 9/11 11/19/04: "We the undersigned:  a) think that there is ample evidence and probable cause to believe  that many grave and still unresolved crimes were committed by US  officials prior to, during and after the events of 9/11;  b) observe that most of these apparent crimes, including but not  limited to abetment of mass murder, criminal negligence, insider  trading, and obstruction of justice fall well within the jurisdiction of New York's top law enforcement officials ..." http://www.justicefor911.org




 
 
Robert J. Carton, MS, PhD
        No photo available 



Robert J. Carton, MS, PhD  – Retired Environmental Scientist and Researcher. Former Chief, Environmental Protection Office of Regulatory Compliance & Quality, 
      U.S. Army Medical Research & Materiel Command.  Former Risk Assessment Manager, Office of Toxic Substances, Environmental Protection Agency (20 year EPA career).  Former President, National Federation of Federal Employees, Local 2050, which represents EPA professionals, including 1100 lawyers, scientists, and engineers at EPA Headquarters in Washington, D.C.
      
Member:  Scholars for 9/11 Truth and Justice   Association Statement: "Scholars for 9/11 Truth and Justice is a non-partisan organization consisting  of independent researchers and activists engaged  in uncovering the true nature of the September 11, 2001 attacks."



Signatory of Petition of Solidarity to the Attorney General of New York for a new independent grand jury investigation of 9/11 11/19/04:  

 "We the undersigned:  a) think that there is ample evidence and probable cause to believe  that many grave and still unresolved crimes were committed by US  officials prior to, during and after the events of 9/11;  b) observe that most of these apparent crimes, including but not  limited to abetment of mass murder, criminal negligence, insider  trading, and obstruction of justice fall well within the jurisdiction of New York's top law enforcement officials ..." http://www.justicefor911.org




          INTERNATIONAL MILITARY, INTELLIGENCE SERVICES
          AND GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS



 
 

Paul Hellyer 


      Paul Hellyer – Former Minister of National Defense of Canada. Former Deputy Prime  Minister.  Former Member of House of  Commons.
        
Video interview with Kyle Hence 5/27/04: Regarding 9/11			

			 
			
            "Why did the  President just sit in the schoolroom when he heard the news?  Why did he  not acknowledge that he already knew what was going on?  As a former  Minister of National Defense, when the news came out I had to wonder.  Why did airplanes fly around for an hour and a half without  interceptors being scrambled from Andrews [Air Force Base]? ... With a quick action alert they should have been there in five minutes or ten minutes. ... 
			
			 
			
			I think the inquiry has been very shallow, very superficial.  I would like to see a much tougher, more  in-depth inquiry. … I would like to see someone in a position of authority ask  those questions and insist on getting answers, at least to why some of the  things that happened that seem to be, for an ordinary person, inexplicable. …  
						
			 
			
I'm very disturbed about a lack of transparency.  Everyone talks about it, and no one is willing to come clean, as it were.  ... We have to try and get the truth. … I hope that somebody has the courage and  persistence to keep at it until we get it." 
            Video: http://www.septembereleventh.org
          Transcript: http://www.septembereleventh.org/alerts/hellyer.php



Bio: http://www.nationmaster.com




 
 

Stephen Beckow 


    Stephen Beckow – Retired Member of the Immigration and Refugee Board of Canada.  Former Historian at the National Museum of Man (now known as the Canadian Museum of Civilization).
      
Essay 9/11/07:  "George Bush says that he entered the 'war against terror' to avenge the deaths of 3,000 Americans who died on 9/11.
			
  
Three-thousand Americans did die on 9/11 and, even though I am a  Canadian and not an American, I honor every one of them. But, in my  view, they did not die in an act of foreign terror.
			  
I allege that they died at the hands of unknown parties under the  direction of President George Bush and Vice-President Dick Cheney. ...
			
  

            The bottom line is that there are no reasons of 'national security' for  hiding all the details of 9/11. There is only 'fear of impeachment'.”  http://21stcenturycicero.wordpress.com
 

Essay 9/19/07:  "A  growing consensus of Americans (and, in my case, Canadians) believe  that 9/11 was a "false flag" operation carried out by the Bush  administration and their agents in the American military and  intelligence communities. ...			

			  
On  behalf of all (Canadians or Americans) who have blamed Muslims for the  events of 9/11, I apologize for having accepted the official version of  events.			
			
 I assert that there are no grounds for blaming Muslims for 9/11. 
  

            I contend that all racial profiling that has occurred since then  has just been part of a drama designed to hide a false-flag operation.			
			
 I argue that the “war on terrorism,” as of 2001, was non-existent.  Our actions since then may have created one, but that is another matter. 
  

          I allege that the Bush Administration has used terror alerts since 9/11 as a way of manipulating the public. 			
			
  

            Recently, the Bush administration has given signs that it plans a second 9/11 to kickstart an illegal war on Iran (see my OpEdNews article, The Chronology of a Second 9/11). 
  

          If  such a horrible catastrophe as a nuclear attack on an American city  (the likeliest spot appears to be Portland) is perpetrated upon the  people of the United States, I remind them that this too is a  Bush-administration crime and has nothing to do with Muslims.			
			
 George Bush and Dick Cheney are the real terrorists.  They are guilty of mass murder and high treason.  And we are complicit through our silence and in accepting as the explanation their false charges against Muslims."  http://www.opednews.com
 
Website: http://impeachspace.ning.com/profile/unity22




 
 

Peter Dale Scott, PhD


      Peter Dale Scott, PhD – Former Canadian diplomat who served at the  United Nations and the Canadian Embassy in Warsaw, Poland.
      
Professor Emeritus of English at the University of California, Berkeley. He is author of Drugs, Oil and War (2003), and seven other books including Deep Politics and the Death of JFK (1993, 1996) and The Iran-Contra Connection (in  collaboration, 1987).  Co-editor of 9/11 and American Empire (Vol I) – Intellectuals Speak Out (2006).  His writings deal among other matters with U.S. covert  operations and their impact on democracy at home and abroad. 
      
Congressional briefing testimony 7/22/05 (p.52): "The American people have been seriously misled  about the origins of the al Qaeda movement blamed for the 9/11 attacks,  just as they have been seriously misled about the reasons for America’s  invasion of Iraq. ... 

 The 9/11  Commission Report assures Americans that "Bin Ladin and his comrades  had their own sources of support and training, and they received little  or no assistance from the United States.  This misleading statement fails to consider that: 

  	 –  Al Qaeda elements received considerable indirect U.S. Government assistance, first in Afghanistan until 1992, and thereafter in other countries such as Azerbaijan (1992-95) ... 

   –   Key members of the network which became al Qaeda,  such as Sheikh Omar Abdel Rahman, Ali Mohamed, Mohamed Jamal Khalifa,  and lead hijacker Mohammed Atta, were granted visas to enter the United  States, despite being suspected of terrorism.  Al Qaeda foot soldiers were also admitted to the United States for training under a special visa program. ...
                [Editor's note: See also J. Michael Springmann.] 
 
   –  Repeatedly al Qaeda terrorists were protected by FBI officials from investigation and prosecution." [Editor's note: See also Coleen Rowley and Bryan Sacks.] http://www.vt911.org



Signatory: Petition requesting a reinvestigation of 9/11:     
          "We want  truthful answers to question. …  As  Americans of conscience, we ask for four things:
          
An  immediate investigation by New York Attorney General Eliot Spitzer 
Immediate  investigation in Congressional Hearings. 
Media  attention to scrutinize and investigate the evidence. 
The  formation of a truly independent citizens-based inquiry." http://www.911truth.org/article 





Bio: http://socrates.berkeley.edu/~pdscott/




 

Paul H. Ray, PhD


    Paul H. Ray, PhD
     – Former Chief of Policy Research on Energy Conservation, Department of Energy, Mines and Resources of the Government of Canada. Former Associate Professor  of Urban Planning and Faculty Associate of the Institute for Social Research, University of Michigan. Co-author of  The Cultural Creatives (2000).
    
Signatory: Petition requesting a reinvestigation of 9/11:     
          "We want  truthful answers to question. …  As  Americans of conscience, we ask for four things:
          
An  immediate investigation by New York Attorney General Eliot Spitzer 
Immediate  investigation in Congressional Hearings. 
Media  attention to scrutinize and investigate the evidence. 
The  formation of a truly independent citizens-based inquiry." http://www.911truth.org/article 





Website: http://www.integralpartnerships.com




 
 

Walter Pitman, BA, MA


Walter Pitman, BA, MA  – Former Member  of the Canadian House of Commons 1960 - 1962. Former Member of the Ontario  Legislature 1967 - 1971.  Appointed Officer of the Order of Canada (1992). Appointed Member of The Order of Ontario, the province's most prestigious  official honor, for outstanding contribution to society in Ontario and  around the world (1991). Former President of Canadian Association of Adult Education. Former Director of the Ontario Institute for Studies in Education. Former Director of the Ontario Arts Council. Former President of Ryerson Polytechnical Institute in Toronto. Former Dean of Arts and Science at Trent University. Former President of the Canadian Civil Liberties Association. Author of Louis Applebaum : A Passion for Culture (2002) and Elmer Iseler: Choral Visionary (2008).  

Personal statement in support of the Political Leaders petition for a new 9/11 investigation: 

 "As  a member of both the Canadian House of Commons and the Ontario  Legislature in the '60's and early '70's, and in the realization of the  death and destruction that has come from the 9/11 attack - an accurate  account is essential.  As an historian with some knowledge of official  documents I found the Commission Report quite inadequate. If integrity  and transparency are to be elements of a democratic state, an  investigation by neutral and knowledgeable people is essential." http://pl911truth.com



Member: Political Leaders for 9/11 Truth Association Statement: 

 "Scholars and professionals with various kinds of expertise---including  architects, engineers, firefighters, intelligence officers, lawyers,  medical professionals, military officers, philosophers, religious  leaders, physical scientists, and pilots---have spoken out about  radical discrepancies between the official account of the 9/11 attacks  and what they, as independent researchers, have learned. 

 They  have established beyond any reasonable doubt that the official account  of 9/11 is false and that, therefore, the official “investigations”  have really been cover-up operations. 

 Thus far, however, there  has been no response from political leaders in Washington or, for that  matter, in other capitals around the world. Our organization, Political  Leaders for 9/11 Truth, has been formed to help bring about such a  response. 

 We believe that the truth about 9/11 needs to be  exposed now---not in 50 years as a footnote in the history books---so  the policies that have been based on the Bush-Cheney administration’s  interpretation of the 9/11 attacks can be changed. 

 We are,  therefore, calling for a new, independent investigation of 9/11 that  takes account of evidence that has been documented by independent  researchers but thus far ignored by governments and the mainstream  media."




 
 

Bill Goodacre


Bill Goodacre – Member of the British Columbia (Canada) Legislature, 1996 - 2001.  Served as Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister of Environment, Lands                       and Parks;  Parliamentary Secretary                       to the Minister of Aboriginal Affairs; and Minister Responsible                       for the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia. 

Personal statement in support of the Political Leaders petition for a new 9/11 investigation: 

 "I've been following the 9-11 Truth work pretty well since that day and  was led to deep questioning by the Barrie Zwicker series on Vision TV  just months after 9/11.  " http://pl911truth.com



Member: Political Leaders for 9/11 Truth Association Statement: 

 "Scholars and professionals with various kinds of expertise---including  architects, engineers, firefighters, intelligence officers, lawyers,  medical professionals, military officers, philosophers, religious  leaders, physical scientists, and pilots---have spoken out about  radical discrepancies between the official account of the 9/11 attacks  and what they, as independent researchers, have learned. 

 They  have established beyond any reasonable doubt that the official account  of 9/11 is false and that, therefore, the official “investigations”  have really been cover-up operations. 

 Thus far, however, there  has been no response from political leaders in Washington or, for that  matter, in other capitals around the world. Our organization, Political  Leaders for 9/11 Truth, has been formed to help bring about such a  response. 

 We believe that the truth about 9/11 needs to be  exposed now---not in 50 years as a footnote in the history books---so  the policies that have been based on the Bush-Cheney administration’s  interpretation of the 9/11 attacks can be changed. 

 We are,  therefore, calling for a new, independent investigation of 9/11 that  takes account of evidence that has been documented by independent  researchers but thus far ignored by governments and the mainstream  media."




 
 

Michael Meacher 


      Michael Meacher – Former Under Secretary for Industry, Under Secretary for Health and Social  Security, Minister for the Environment, and Member of the House of Commons  (UK).
        
Member: Political Leaders for 9/11 Truth Association Statement: 

 "Scholars and professionals with various kinds of expertise---including  architects, engineers, firefighters, intelligence officers, lawyers,  medical professionals, military officers, philosophers, religious  leaders, physical scientists, and pilots---have spoken out about  radical discrepancies between the official account of the 9/11 attacks  and what they, as independent researchers, have learned. 

 They  have established beyond any reasonable doubt that the official account  of 9/11 is false and that, therefore, the official “investigations”  have really been cover-up operations. 

 Thus far, however, there  has been no response from political leaders in Washington or, for that  matter, in other capitals around the world. Our organization, Political  Leaders for 9/11 Truth, has been formed to help bring about such a  response. 

 We believe that the truth about 9/11 needs to be  exposed now---not in 50 years as a footnote in the history books---so  the policies that have been based on the Bush-Cheney administration’s  interpretation of the 9/11 attacks can be changed. 

 We are,  therefore, calling for a new, independent investigation of 9/11 that  takes account of evidence that has been documented by independent  researchers but thus far ignored by governments and the mainstream  media."



Video 5/6/06:  Regarding the 9/11 Commission Report  "It was a 580-page avoidance of any serious explanation.  … The official investigative report says the US has never been able to find the  sources of financing for 9/11.  And then  they say this "That after all is a matter of no great importance." [Editor's note: 9/11 Commission Report, p.172]                       

 I find that astonishing.  It is a matter of absolutely central  importance. So there was a very great deal of evidence.  And it seems to me extraordinary that the  United States with its stupendous military capabilities and the most  technologically advanced country in the world completely and totally failed to  follow up on these leads." http://video.google



Essay 7/22/04: "[Ahmed Omar Saeed] Sheikh is also the man who, on the instructions of General Mahmoud  Ahmed, the then head of Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI),  wired $100,000 before the 9/11 attacks to Mohammed Atta, the lead  hijacker. It is extraordinary that neither Ahmed nor Sheikh have been  charged and brought to trial on this count. Why not? ...                       

            When Ahmed was exposed by the Wall Street Journal as having sent the  money to the hijackers, he was forced to "retire" by President Pervez  Musharraf. Why hasn't the US demanded that he be questioned and tried  in court?" http://www.guardian.co


Editor's note: Despite the finding of the Joint House-Senate Select Intelligence Committee's 2002 Report (p.415) of "sources of foreign support for some of the September 11 hijackers", the 9/11 Commission Report (p. 172) states, "Similarly, we have seen no evidence that any foreign government -- or government official -- supplied any funding."  For more information on foreign support of the 9/11 hijackers,  see Senator Bob Graham, Congresswoman Cynthia McKinney, Major John Newman, and William Bergman.

 
Bio: http://www.epolitix.com





 
 

Tony Benn


      Tony Benn – Former Member of British Parliament 1942 - 2001. Longest serving MP in the history of the Labour party.  Former Minister of Technology.  Former Secretary of State for Industry.  Former Secretary of State for Energy.  Former Postmaster General. 
        
Signatory: Petition For An Independent International Truth Commission On 9/11. "[T]he Bush administration has never offered a  detailed and documented account  of its claims about the events of 9-11 which have allegedly  revolutionized human affairs. Nor has  it explained obvious and serious discrepancies in its own statements  and actions. No systematic  proof has ever been published or offered as to who the terrorists were,  how they operated, where  they came from, and why they were not stopped. ...                       

            The  Kean-Hamilton panel’s limited funding  from Congress makes a mockery of the tragedy of 9-11, considering that  it is only a small fraction  of the huge sums spent to investigate Bill Clinton. ...                       


          We  therefore call upon  statesmen, thinkers, journalists, investigators, artists, scientists,  jurists, academics,  humanitarians, religious leaders, activists and other eminent  personalities from around the world  to form an Independent International Truth Commission dedicated to  preventing unproven assertions  about 9-11 from setting the stage for a new world conflagration." http://iitc.911review.org/

Bio: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tony_Benn



 
 

Robin Cook 

      Robin Cook  (1946 - 2005) – Member of British Parliament and Holder of two cabinet posts; Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs 1997 - 2001 and Leader of the House of Commons and Lord President of the Council 2001 - 2003. He resigned the latter post on March 17, 2003 in protest against the invasion of Iraq.
        
Essay The Guardian 7/8/05 : 
		  


"Bin Laden was, though, a product of a monumental miscalculation by  western security agencies. Throughout the 80s he was armed by the CIA  and funded by the Saudis to wage jihad against the Russian occupation  of Afghanistan. Al-Qaida, literally "the database", was originally the  computer file of the thousands of mujahideen who were recruited and  trained with help from the CIA to defeat the Russians." http://www.guardian.co.uk



Editors Note: Mr. Cook's statement contradicts the 9/11 Commission Report's statement, "But Bin Laden and his comrades had their own sources of support and training, and they received little or no assistance from the United States." (page 56).  See also former  U.S. State Department Foreign Service Officer J. Michael Springmann's statement about CIA training of Al-Qaida.



Bio: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robin_Cook




 
 

George Galloway


      George Galloway – Member of British Parliament 1987 - present.  Co-author of Downfall: The Ceausescus and the Romanian  Revolution (1990).  Author of I'm Not the Only One (autobiography 2004), Mr. Galloway Goes to Washington: The Brit Who Set Congress Straight About Iraq (2005), Fidel Castro Handbook (2006).
        
On-air comments The Real Deal television interview of William Rodriguez 6/12/07:  

 "Now you're wearing a badge, which says '911 Truth' and it's fairly clear that you think we don't have the truth and I'm certainly willing to accept that. ... 

 We should call it, this 9/11 Truth Movement, call it a group of people  who don't accept the official version.  Well, in that case, I'm one of  them because I don't accept the official version, either."  http://www.flamesong.com/911/rodriguez070612.html



Bio: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/George_Galloway 



Website: http://www.georgegalloway.com/




 
 

Annie Machon 


      Annie Machon  – Former MI5 Intelligence Officer (the UK  equivalent of the U.S. FBI). Initially served in the Counter-Subversion  department, officially known 'F2'. Later served in 'T Branch', the Irish  counter-terrorism section and then 'G Branch', working on international  counter-terrorism; 6 years of service. Resigned in 1996 to blow the whistle on  illegal activities within MI5 and MI6 (the UK equivalent of the U.S. CIA).
      
Video Presentation at College of Marin, Kentfield, CA 9/22/08: 

 "We picked up a book. Of course it's the first book many of us will have read about 9/11. It was The New Pearl Harbor by David Ray Griffin. And I devoured it in a period of 24 hours. 

 It was like the scales falling from my eyes. It's so obvious there's so much evidence that we at least require a new inquiry into this. ... 

 I feel passionately we have to do something about this. On behalf not only of the families of the victims and the survivors and the eyewitnesses, but also the first responders;  all those thousands of people who did their best to help their fellow human beings and ended up sick and dying because they were lied to by the U.S. government. 

 It's the duty of any thinking citizen, I think, to just carry on campaigning for a new independent and potentially international inquiry to really get to the bottom of this. 

 And let's think; it's not for us to prove  the whole of our theories; any theories we have. There are many, many examples of weak links in their chain; their official story. 

 Even the [9/11] Commissioners have now said that they were set up to fail. If that's not an indication we need a new inquiry, I don't know what is. ... 

 The controversy around why the towers came down; all three of them. 

 The put options; the financial speculation on the fact that the shares of the airlines would plunge. 

 The failures, massive endemic failures  of the air defenses of this country. That at least should require a decent, proper inquiry. And a whole range of other issues. ... 

 So there's this whole wealth of  evidence, strong evidence that directly contradicts the official account and that's why we demand a new inquiry. We need one." Beginning at 40:10 of the video at http://video.google.com



Website: http://www.anniemachon.com




 
 

Andreas von Buelow, PhD 


      Andreas von Buelow, PhD – Former State Secretary of the Federal Ministry of Defense of West Germany.  Former Minister of Research and Technology.  Member of Bundestag (Parliament) 1969 - 1994.
      
Member: Political Leaders for 9/11 Truth Association Statement: 

 "Scholars and professionals with various kinds of expertise---including  architects, engineers, firefighters, intelligence officers, lawyers,  medical professionals, military officers, philosophers, religious  leaders, physical scientists, and pilots---have spoken out about  radical discrepancies between the official account of the 9/11 attacks  and what they, as independent researchers, have learned. 

 They  have established beyond any reasonable doubt that the official account  of 9/11 is false and that, therefore, the official “investigations”  have really been cover-up operations. 

 Thus far, however, there  has been no response from political leaders in Washington or, for that  matter, in other capitals around the world. Our organization, Political  Leaders for 9/11 Truth, has been formed to help bring about such a  response. 

 We believe that the truth about 9/11 needs to be  exposed now---not in 50 years as a footnote in the history books---so  the policies that have been based on the Bush-Cheney administration’s  interpretation of the 9/11 attacks can be changed. 

 We are,  therefore, calling for a new, independent investigation of 9/11 that  takes account of evidence that has been documented by independent  researchers but thus far ignored by governments and the mainstream  media."



Video 5/6/06:  "The official story is so inadequate and  far-fetched that there must be another one."   http://video.google.com



Article/Interview 1/13/02: "The planning of the attacks was technically and  organizationally a master achievement.  To hijack four huge airplanes within a  few minutes and within one hour, to drive them into their targets, with  complicated flight maneuvers!  This is  unthinkable, without years-long support from secret apparatuses of the state  and industry."   http://www.ratical.org/ratville/CAH/VonBuelow

Documentary Shadowplay 2008:   "This whole behavior of government after 9/11 shows me that there must be these people which brought it about.  It must be very, very high up. ...  I think so.  It's a covert operation, a typical covert operation where you have patsies, false flag, where you prepare everything to blame different people from the people which really did the things.  But they are able to influence the public opinion in order to say, 'Well, the Muslims are our real foes, which we have to fight.'"  http://www.youtube.com



Member:  Scholars for 9/11 Truth and Justice   Association Statement: "Scholars for 9/11 Truth and Justice is a non-partisan organization consisting  of independent researchers and activists engaged  in uncovering the true nature of the September 11, 2001 attacks."





 
Horst Ehmke, PhD 

Horst Ehmke, PhD  – Former Minister of Justice (West Germany).  Former Minister for Research and Technology.  Cabinet Member under Chancellors Kurt Kiesinger and Willy Brandt 1966 - 1974.  Professor of Law, University of Freiburg 
        
Article 7/22/04: "Terrorists could not have carried out such an operation with four hijacked planes without the support of a secret service." http://www.guardian.co

Bio: http://translate.google.com



 
 

Eckart Werthebach, JD 

      Eckart Werthebach, JD – Former President, 
      Bundesamt für Verfassungsschutz (BfV), Germany’s domestic
      intelligence service 1991 - 1995.  Mayor of Berlin 2000 - 2001.  Berlin's Minister of the Interior 1998 - 2001.
      
Article Euro Intel Experts Dismiss ‘War on Terrorism’ as Deception 12/4/01: "Eckehardt [sic] Werthebach, former president of Germany's  domestic      intelligence service, Verfassungsschutz, told AFP that "the deathly      precision" and "the magnitude of planning" behind the  attacks      of September 11 would have needed "years of planning." 

 Such a sophisticated operation, Werthebach said, would      require the "fixed frame" of a state intelligence organization,      something not found in a "loose group" of terrorists like the      one allegedly led by Mohammed Atta while he studied in Hamburg. 

 Many people would have been involved in the planning      of such an operation and Werthebach pointed to the absence of leaks as      further indication that the attacks were "state organized  actions." http://www.rense.com




 
 

Axel Troost, PhD  


      Axel Troost, PhD Economics  – Member of the German  Bundestag (Parliament) 2005 - present.  German politician and political economist.  Member of the Left Party.  Since 1984 Managing Partner of PIW Progress Institute for Economic Research.  General Manager of the Office for Research in Rostock 1990 - 2001.
      
Signatory: War Is Illegal Petition 12/07, which states: 




          "Against a background of escalating ecological crises, and the fact that  large parts of the world´s population are being exposed to extreme  poverty, inhuman working conditions and increasing social tensions, the  annual global military expenditure has risen to more than 1,000 billion  dollars.
		        



The military-industrial complex of just a few G8 countries  is responsible for the overwhelming part of this spending, causing  incalculable social and ecological consequences.
          



Unequal  distribution of global resources, increasingly controlled by large  multinational companies, global debt policy and unfair international  trading practices ultimately could not be maintained without military  security. In many countries the military is used to repress critical  opposition.
		        


The terror attacks of September 11, 2001 are increasingly used to  justify systematic surveillance and the dismantling of constitutional  rights.  [Bold added for emphasis by Editor of this website.]  Even European countries have helped to establish Guantanomo-like secret  prisons, where torture in all probability takes place.

		        



            Iraq was attacked based on falsified evidence causing the death of  hundreds of thousands of people, widespread destruction,  destabilization and contamination with cancer-causing depleted uranium  munitions.
			        



          Now plans to attack Iran and the possibility of a new World War have  been made public, meeting resistance even from moderate elements within  the military due to the unforeseeable consequences.
		          


Faced with the choice between a war, that according to some western  leaders, will last for many years or a possible peaceful transformation  we support the following demands: ... 
                  

 International investigation of the September 11, 2001 terror attacks.  They are used as the central justification for the "War on Terror", but  well documented evidence shows that the official explanation of 9/11  cannot be correct.  International personalities in science, politics,  and culture, including high-ranking military veterans, have called for  a new investigation." [Bold added for emphasis by Editor of this website.]  The full text of the petition is available at http://www.war-is-illegal.org



Bio: http://www.bundestag.de/mdb/bio/T/troosax0.html



Website: http://www.axeltroost.de




 
 

Hans-Christian Ströbele


      Hans-Christian Ströbele – Member of the German  Bundestag (Parliament) 1985 - 1987, 1998 - present.  German politician and lawyer.  Member of the Green Party.
      
Written Reply to Constituent Inquiry 5/17/08:  

 "Some years ago, I became concerned about the discrepancies  in the account of the events of 9/11.   Many things still remain in the dark and many contradictions are  unresolved.  This is mainly the result of  the restrictive information policies of the U.S. administration.  In my opinion, it is likely that U.S. security  agencies knew much more than they have admitted.  I also think it is possible that they were  involved in the events.
		  
          


But theories that the U.S. administration and a group of  individuals around the President were responsible for planning the attacks, I  believe are incorrect.  And this is  supported by numerous public findings and repeated admissions from Al Qaida  leaders.		  
          


		However, I recently received more mail pointing out new  evidence and proof for such theories [of U.S. government involvement].  I do not have the time right now to look into  this in detail, but I intend to do so this summer when I have more time."  Original comment in German at http://www.abgeordnetenwatch.de
            



Bio: http://www.bundestag.de/mdb/bio/S/stroeha0.html



Website: http://www.stroebele-online.de/




 
 

Hans Wallow  


      Hans Wallow  – Former Member of the German  Bundestag (Parliament) 1981 - 1983 and 1990 - 1998. Former Assistant Secretary (Ministerialrat) Press and  Information Office of the Federal Government responsible for Central and  Latin America.  Former Director and Head of Federal Government Press  and Information, responsible for areas of  youth, family, health, research and technology, education and science. Frequent contributing writer to Friday,  Rheinischer Merkur, and Berliner Zeitung. Author of Bitte einsteigen. Berichte aus dem politischen Alltag (Please  get on board. Reports from political life) (1981), Richard von  Weizsäcker in der Diskussion: Die verdrossene Gesellschaft (In discussion with Richard  von Weizsäcker: The constantly complaining society) (1992), Der  Profi: Rudolf Scharping (The Professional: Rudolf Scharping) (1994). 
      
Signatory: War Is Illegal Petition 12/07, which states:  

 "Against a background of escalating ecological crises, and the fact that  large parts of the world´s population are being exposed to extreme  poverty, inhuman working conditions and increasing social tensions, the  annual global military expenditure has risen to more than 1,000 billion  dollars. 

 The military-industrial complex of just a few G8 countries  is responsible for the overwhelming part of this spending, causing  incalculable social and ecological consequences. 

 Unequal  distribution of global resources, increasingly controlled by large  multinational companies, global debt policy and unfair international  trading practices ultimately could not be maintained without military  security. In many countries the military is used to repress critical  opposition. 

 The terror attacks of September 11, 2001 are increasingly used to  justify systematic surveillance and the dismantling of constitutional  rights.  [Bold added for emphasis by Editor of this website.]  Even European countries have helped to establish Guantanomo-like secret  prisons, where torture in all probability takes place. 

 Iraq was attacked based on falsified evidence causing the death of  hundreds of thousands of people, widespread destruction,  destabilization and contamination with cancer-causing depleted uranium  munitions. 

 Now plans to attack Iran and the possibility of a new World War have  been made public, meeting resistance even from moderate elements within  the military due to the unforeseeable consequences. 

 Faced with the choice between a war, that according to some western  leaders, will last for many years or a possible peaceful transformation  we support the following demands: ... 

 International investigation of the September 11, 2001 terror attacks.  They are used as the central justification for the "War on Terror", but  well documented evidence shows that the official explanation of 9/11  cannot be correct.  International personalities in science, politics,  and culture, including high-ranking military veterans, have called for  a new investigation." [Bold added for emphasis by Editor of this website.]  The full text of the petition is available at http://www.war-is-illegal.org



Bio: http://webarchiv.bundestag.de



Website: http://www.hans-wallow.com/




 
 

Ernst Welteke 


      Ernst Welteke – Former President of Deutsche Bundesbank (German Federal Bank) 1999 - 2004.  German politician and political economist.  Member of the Hessian State Parliament, 1974 - 1995. 
        
Telegraph Article 9/23/01: "Ernst Welteke, president of the Bundesbank, said financial  investigators had found strong indications of suspicious dealings in  gold and oil, as well as unusual movements in airline and insurance  shares, in the days before the September 11 attacks in the United  States.  ..."There are ever clearer signs that there were activities on  international financial markets that must have been carried out with  the necessary expert knowledge." http://www.telegraph.co.uk

Washington Post Article 9/22/01: "The president of Germany's central bank said today there was  mounting evidence that people connected to the attacks in New York and  Washington sought to profit from the tragedy by engaging in "terrorism  insider trading" on European stock and commodity markets.
                      
Ernst  Welteke, head of the Bundesbank, said a preliminary review by German  regulators and bank researchers showed there were highly suspicious  sales of shares in airlines and insurance companies, along with major  trades in gold and oil markets, before Sept. 11 that suggest they were  conducted with advance knowledge of the attacks.                       
Welteke  said his researchers came across what he considers almost irrefutable  proof of insider trading as recently as Thursday, but he refused to  release details pending further consultations with regulators in other  countries.                      

"What we found  makes us sure that people connected to the terrorists must have been  trying to profit from this tragedy,'' he told European finance  ministers and central bankers." http://www.webcom.com/hrin/magazine/brussels.html



Editor's note:  The 9/11 Commission states in its Monograph on Terrorist Financing, "The U.S. government investigation unequivocally concluded that there was no evidence
            of illicit trading in the U.S. markets with knowledge of the terrorist attacks. The
            Commission staff, after an independent review of the government investigation, has
          discovered no reason to doubt this conclusion."  For more information on 9/11-related investment irregularities, see Paul Zarembka and William Bergman.

Bio: http://64.233.179.104:




 
 

Dieter Deiseroth, JD


Dieter Deiseroth, JD  – Judge at the Federal Administrative Court (Bundesverwaltungsgericht) ), one of the five German Supreme Courts 2001 - present.  Chief Judge of  the Administrative Court in Münster and Head of the Data Protection  Agency of North Rhine-Westphalia 1991 - 2001. Judge at the Federal Constitutional Court in Karlsruhe 1989 - 1991. Administrative Judge in Düsseldorf 1983 - 1989. Member  of the Scientific Advisory Board of the German section of the  International Association of Lawyers Against Nuclear Arms (IALANA) and Chair of the Whistleblowing Award Jury.
          

Interview Heise Online 12/15/09: 


			"The results and conclusions of the  9/11 Commission are questionable. The Commission  consisted predominantly of persons allied with the Bush  government as well as having very close ties to the military-industrial complex and the secret  services. That was certainly true for Henry Kissinger, who was first offered the Chairmanship of the Commission, but which had to be quickly withdrawn, because the public and large parts of the  Congress significantly questioned its ability to be independent.			
			



            And 
            now,  more than 8 years after 9/11,  there still has been no  independent agency or  court investigation of the alleged or  available evidence to determine  who was responsible for the attacks of 9/11, at least not by constitutionally  required standards and procedures. ...			
			


              Since 9/11, as if on a continuous loop, it has been announced again and  again, that Osama Ben Laden and Al Qaida had been responsible for the  attacks.
            ...			
			



            However, we must insist that if someone accuses Bin Laden of being responsible for the terrorist acts of 9/11,  then they must also carry the burden of proving it. ...			
			


            I state that the official US investigation report leaves a great many unanswered questions about 9/11. ...			
			


            The alleged or actual proof for the official version of 9/11, stated by  the Bush administration, so far has never been examined by an independent court. That was prevented from happening. ...			
			


            Many lawyers, including very well-known experts in international law as  for instance Professor Richard Falk (Princeton University) and  Professor Burns Weston (University of Iowa), demanded that the United Nations  should furnish an international, independent commission to  examine the evidence and determine who was responsible for the terrorist attacks  of 9/11. This demand appears to me to be quite reasonable. Such an  independent investigation committee could provide important clarification  ...			
			


            I consider this proposal meaningful and  necessary.  Because it is an investigation of the primary official  justification for a war (“Operation Enduring Freedom”) and for significant  changes in the US legal system resulting from the so-called  Homeland Security legislation. ...
            			
		



              It is  unfortunate that many within the media, are still not sufficiently  prepared to face the issue of 9 / 11 and the  unanswered questions. Perhaps because it would open up other abysses."			
			


              The original article in German is available at 
http://www.heise.de/tp/r4/artikel/31/31729/1.html





 
 

Lt. Col. Jochen Scholz


Lt. Col. Jochen Scholz, German Air Force (ret)  (Oberstleutnant der Bundesluftwaffe) – Retired German Air Force and NATO officer.  Represented Germany in various NATO committees and  multi-national organizations.   38-year Air Force career, of which 12 years were in NATO service, and the final 6 years were with the German Federal Ministry of  Defense.
  
        

Video documentary Unter Falscher Flagge (Under False Flag) 12/07:  

 Regarding 9/11: "Ultimate responsibility for the so-called "air policing" and for alarming the interceptor pilots, in NATO terminology an "Alpha Scramble" when the planes go up, lies with the North American Air Defense Command NORAD.  It is the largest air defense center in the world watching for external as well as internal threats.  It has every single mouse on its radar screen.  

 Among the NATO nations, it is the general rule that within 10 to 15 minutes of the sounding of an alarm, planes have to be in the air.  It was exactly this which did not occur for over two hours.   Not one single interceptor plane made the attempt to force the [hijacked] planes down or even to investigate or anything else.  A story is told that prior to September 11th, 2001, in the same year more than 60 similar operations [air intercepts] were executed without a hitch.  

 And the smokescreens which have been put up by the official inquiry committee of the Congress that on this day an unbelievable number of exercises by the Air Force had taken place and so everyone had been confused and not able to tell the difference between real life and exercise.  That is simply incomprehensible for someone with a background in air defense.  Because exercises, with regard to air traffic control and air defense, are always separated from real life in air traffic."
            English subtitled version: http://nuoviso.com
          Original in German: http://www.nuoviso.de




 
 

Wolfram Elsner, PhD


Wolfram Elsner, PhD – Former head of the Planning  Division of the Ministry of Economic Affairs of the State of Bremen and Director of the Bremen State Economic Research Institute, and Bremen State  Official for Industrial Defense Conversion, 1989 - 2001.  Currently Professor of Economics,  Structural Research and Economic Policy, in the Faculty of Economics and  Business Studies, Institute for Institutional and Socio-Economics (IISO),  at the University of Bremen, Germany.  Also Adjunct Professor, Doctoral Faculty, Department of Economics, University of Missouri. Chair of the German chapter of Economists for Peace and Security (formerly Economists Allied for Arms Reduction)   2003 - present. and is a member of the editorial and advisory boards of several  international journals, including the Economics of Peace and Security  Journal (EPSJ).  He has organized the Joint Seminars of the European  Association for Evolutionary Political Economy (EAEPE) and Economists for Peace and Security (EPS).
      Author, co-author and editor of numerous books on modern economics, including International Restructuring and Conversion of the Arms Industries and the Military Sector (2002), Arms, War, and Terrorism in the Global Economy Today (2007), Advances in Evolutionary Institutional Economics (2008), Konversion als Innovation: Die bremische Konversionsförderung 1992 bis 1995 (1998), Social Costs and Public Action in Modern Capitalism (2006).
      
Member: Political Leaders for 9/11 Truth Association Statement: 

 "Scholars and professionals with various kinds of expertise---including  architects, engineers, firefighters, intelligence officers, lawyers,  medical professionals, military officers, philosophers, religious  leaders, physical scientists, and pilots---have spoken out about  radical discrepancies between the official account of the 9/11 attacks  and what they, as independent researchers, have learned. 

 They  have established beyond any reasonable doubt that the official account  of 9/11 is false and that, therefore, the official “investigations”  have really been cover-up operations. 

 Thus far, however, there  has been no response from political leaders in Washington or, for that  matter, in other capitals around the world. Our organization, Political  Leaders for 9/11 Truth, has been formed to help bring about such a  response. 

 We believe that the truth about 9/11 needs to be  exposed now---not in 50 years as a footnote in the history books---so  the policies that have been based on the Bush-Cheney administration’s  interpretation of the 9/11 attacks can be changed. 

 We are,  therefore, calling for a new, independent investigation of 9/11 that  takes account of evidence that has been documented by independent  researchers but thus far ignored by governments and the mainstream  media."



Signatory: War Is Illegal Petition 12/07, which states: 

 "Against a background of escalating ecological crises, and the fact that  large parts of the world´s population are being exposed to extreme  poverty, inhuman working conditions and increasing social tensions, the  annual global military expenditure has risen to more than 1,000 billion  dollars. 

 The military-industrial complex of just a few G8 countries  is responsible for the overwhelming part of this spending, causing  incalculable social and ecological consequences. 

 Unequal  distribution of global resources, increasingly controlled by large  multinational companies, global debt policy and unfair international  trading practices ultimately could not be maintained without military  security. In many countries the military is used to repress critical  opposition. 

 The terror attacks of September 11, 2001 are increasingly used to  justify systematic surveillance and the dismantling of constitutional  rights.  [Bold added for emphasis by Editor of this website.]  Even European countries have helped to establish Guantanomo-like secret  prisons, where torture in all probability takes place. 

 Iraq was attacked based on falsified evidence causing the death of  hundreds of thousands of people, widespread destruction,  destabilization and contamination with cancer-causing depleted uranium  munitions. 

 Now plans to attack Iran and the possibility of a new World War have  been made public, meeting resistance even from moderate elements within  the military due to the unforeseeable consequences. 

 Faced with the choice between a war, that according to some western  leaders, will last for many years or a possible peaceful transformation  we support the following demands: ... 

 International investigation of the September 11, 2001 terror attacks.  They are used as the central justification for the "War on Terror", but  well documented evidence shows that the official explanation of 9/11  cannot be correct.  International personalities in science, politics,  and culture, including high-ranking military veterans, have called for  a new investigation." [Bold added for emphasis by Editor of this website.]  The full text of the petition is available at http://www.war-is-illegal.org




 
 

Lt. Col. Albert A. Stahel, PhD 



      Lt. Col. (Oberstleutnant) Albert A. Stahel, PhD – Internationally recognized expert on military strategy.  Professor of Political Science, University of Zurich 1986 - present.  Head Lecturer for Strategic Studies, Military Academy (MILAK) of the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology (ETH) 1980 - 2006.   Former Professor of International Relations, University of Geneva. 

 Managing Director and Vice President of the Forum Humanitarian Switzerland, Zurich.  Director of the Zurich Institute for Strategic Studies.  Member, The Military Conflict Institute, Washington DC.  Member, International Political Science Association, Oslo.  Member,  International Institute for Strategic Studies, London.  Member, Swiss Association of Political Science, St. Gallen. 

 Author, co-author, and editor of numerous articles and books on the subject of military strategy, modern warfare, terrorism, organized crime, nuclear weapons, airpower, and Afghanistan.  An extensive list of his many publications can be found here.
      
 Article in Blick, the largest Swiss newspaper 9/15/06 "Now even the Swiss are saying, "The More We Research, The More We Doubt" 

 "2,973 people died in the attacks of 9/11.  'Bin Laden' and 'Al Qaeda', screamed the Bush clan.  The world believed him.  Now, even scientists are beginning to doubt the Bush version.  The Swiss university professors Albert A. Stahel (63) and Daniele Ganser (34) are now asking heated questions. 

 "Something is wrong," says military strategy  expert Stahel in the 'Weltwoche' and refers to the 'incomplete'  official 9/11 Report of the U.S. government in 2004. 

 BLICK confirmed the professor's criticism at the University: 

 "Osama Bin Laden is 'not the great godfather' behind the attacks.  He does not have enough means of communication. 

 Stahel also doubts that a passenger plane crashed into the Pentagon.  "For flight novice it is actually impossible to so precisely hit the building." 

 Seven hours after the Twin Towers collapsed next to it,  World Trade Center Building 7 also collapsed.  According to the official version, it burned a long time.  According to Stahel, "Nothing is clear."  Original article in German  http://www.blick.ch



Tages Anzeiger Article 9/9/06: "Americans have been poorly and one-sidedly informed about 9/11.  First and foremost
          the SURPRISE Theory [The US  government was not expecting the attack.] has been disseminated through every channel," according to
          Professor Albert Stahel of the University of Zurich.  "Now that is taking its toll.  Alternative media have launched a counter-attack, spreading the LIHOP  Theory [The US government knew the attack was coming, but Let It Happen On Purpose.] and the MIHOP
          Theory [The U.S.  government planned and executed the attack i.e Made It Happen On Purpose.]. Who wins will only be shown in the future.  Distrust of the government is
          great." 
English translation: http://www.danieleganser.ch
Original in German: http://www.danieleganser.ch



CV: http://www.strategische-studien.com




 
 

Lt. Col. Said Huber


      Lt. Col. (Oberstleutnant) Said Huber – Attorney and Clerk of the Military Supreme Court of   Switzerland (Militärkassationsgericht).  Former Artillery Officer of the Swiss Armed Forces.
      
 Review of The 9/11 Conspiracy edited by James Fetzer, PhD 8/6/07: 
          "Committed to Truth and scientific reasoning University Professor  Emeritus James H. Fetzer (a former Marine Corps officer) explains  together with eminent scholars and researchers in a breathtaking way  all essential facts that all responsible citizens should know about the  atrocities of 9/11. 

 Examining thoroughly the scientific, historical, political,  economical and psychological dimensions of these horrendous events they  substantiate convincingly that 

 1. the 9/11 government account (= official conspiracy theory) is provably false, 

 2. all circumstantial evidence points at an "inside job" (yet to be subjected to impartial criminal investigation), 

 3. the alleged (global) "war on terrorism" - an oxymoron - is a  double deception upon humanity (enabling hidden robber-knight and  Orwellian police-state agendas). 

 Reading this book the question arises if the stratagem to call  9/11-Truth researchers names (or doing worse to them) reflects the  moral and intellectual bankruptcy of those who refuse to LOOK at the  facts with an open mind and to THINK logically  ... 

 Anyway I'm thrilled to see these brave scholars for 9/11-Truth  stand up and prove - once more and beyond any reasonable doubt - that  war IS a racket, as America's most decorated USMC Major General Smedley D. Butler believed (By the way: do you think this General was wrong to  write: "There are only two things we should fight for. One is the  defense of our homes and the other is the Bill of Rights. War for any  other reason is simply a racket."?)." http://www.amazon.com/review



Signatory: Lawyers for 9/11 Truth petition requesting a reinvestigation of 9/11: 

 "Lawyers are trained to value the Constitution and the rule of law. 

 We  are trained to examine evidence and to spot cover-ups or  inconsistencies in the evidence and bias in witnesses or  decision-makers. 

 Attorneys are also experts in weighing conflicting evidence. 

 For all of the above reasons, many  lawyers have concluded that the 9/11 Commission and other government  examinations were wholly inadequate, and did not follow proper rules of  evidence or procedure. 

 We are demanding an end to the 9/11  cover-up, and a full investigation by unbiased people with subpoena  power ... and the courage to demand that the Constitution and rule of  law are followed, and all guilty persons held accountable for their  actions. 

 The following legal scholars,  judges and attorneys demand an end to the 9/11 cover-up, a new, full  and unbiased investigation, and punishment of all guilty parties." http://www.l911t.com 


 Signatory: War Is Illegal Petition 12/07, which states:  

 "Against a background of escalating ecological crises, and the fact that  large parts of the world´s population are being exposed to extreme  poverty, inhuman working conditions and increasing social tensions, the  annual global military expenditure has risen to more than 1,000 billion  dollars. 

 The military-industrial complex of just a few G8 countries  is responsible for the overwhelming part of this spending, causing  incalculable social and ecological consequences. 

 Unequal  distribution of global resources, increasingly controlled by large  multinational companies, global debt policy and unfair international  trading practices ultimately could not be maintained without military  security. In many countries the military is used to repress critical  opposition. 

 The terror attacks of September 11, 2001 are increasingly used to  justify systematic surveillance and the dismantling of constitutional  rights.  [Bold added for emphasis by Editor of this website.]  Even European countries have helped to establish Guantanomo-like secret  prisons, where torture in all probability takes place. 

 Iraq was attacked based on falsified evidence causing the death of  hundreds of thousands of people, widespread destruction,  destabilization and contamination with cancer-causing depleted uranium  munitions. 

 Now plans to attack Iran and the possibility of a new World War have  been made public, meeting resistance even from moderate elements within  the military due to the unforeseeable consequences. 

 Faced with the choice between a war, that according to some western  leaders, will last for many years or a possible peaceful transformation  we support the following demands: ... 

 International investigation of the September 11, 2001 terror attacks.  They are used as the central justification for the "War on Terror", but  well documented evidence shows that the official explanation of 9/11  cannot be correct.  International personalities in science, politics,  and culture, including high-ranking military veterans, have called for  a new investigation." [Bold added for emphasis by Editor of this website.]  The full text of the petition is available at http://www.war-is-illegal.org



 
 

Francesco Cossiga

      Francesco Cossiga – President of Italy (1985 - 1992) and Former Prime Minister.  Also served as Undersecretary for Defence.  Former President of the Italian Senate.  Former Chairman of the Chamber of Deputies Foreign Affairs Committee.  Former Professor of Constitutional Law, Sassari University.  Named                         "Doctor of Civil Law" from Oxford University.  Honorary Fellow of Oriel College, Oxford.  Member of the                         Council of the Foundation of the Academy of Philosophy Studies                         of Liechtenstein.  Honorary Senator of the Senate of the University                         of Bonn.  Holds honorary degrees from major universities                         around the world.  Author of Il Torto e il Diritto: Quasi un Antologia Personale (The Wrong and the Right: A Personal Anthology) (1993). 

Article Corriere della Sera 11/30/07:  Mr. Cossiga commenting on a purported new video from Osama bin Laden:  "From areas around the Palazzo Chigi, nerve centre of direction of  Italian intelligence, it is noted that the non-authenticity of the  video is supported by the fact that Osama bin Laden in it 'confessed'  that Al Qaeda was responsible for the 9/11 attack on the Twin Towers  in New York.  However, all of the democratic  areas of America and of Europe, with   the Italian center-left in the forefront, now know full well that the disastrous attack was  planned and executed by the American CIA and Mossad with the help of  the Zionist world to falsely incriminate Arabic countries and to  persuade the Western Powers to intervene in Iraq and Afghanistan."  Original article in Italian http://www.corriere.it



Book 9/11 Synthetic Terror: Made in USA: "Cossiga indicated his suspicion that  
            the attacks presupposed some form of complicity within the US security system. The
            mastermind of the attack, Cossiga observed must have been a "sophisticated mind,
            provided with ample means not only to recruit fanatic kamikazes, but also highly
            specialized personnel. I add one thing: it could not be accomplished without infiltrations
            in the radar and flight security personnel." As for Bin Laden, Cossiga added that "it is not
            thinkable that he did everything by himself." (La Stampa 9/14/01, EIR 9/15/01) (p. 36) http://www.indymedia.org

Bio: http://de.camera.it/_presidents/schede/cossiga.asp




 
 

Ferdinando Imposimato


      Ferdinando Imposimato – Honorary President of the Suprema Corte di Cassazione (Supreme Court of Italy).  Former Senior Investigative Judge, Italy.  Presided over several terrorism-related cases, including the kidnapping and ultimate assassination of President Aldo Moro (1978), the attempted assassination of Pope John Paul II (1981), other political assassinations and kidnapping cases and several cases against the Mafia.  Former Senator who served on the Anti-Mafia Commission in three administrations.  Former legal consultant to the United Nations regarding institution of laws to control drug trafficking.  Former President of TRIO (Transplant Recipient International Organization).  Author of Un juge en Italie : pouvoir, corruption, terrorisme. Les dossiers noirs de la Mafia (2000), La Grande Menzogna (2006).
        
Book 9/11 Synthetic Terror: Made in USA by Webster Tarpley: "Ferdinando Imposimato, one of the most prominent investigating judges in Italy during the years of the Red Brigades, the Moro assassination, and the attempt to assassinate Pope John Paul II, also found it impossible to accept the Bush administration account.  Imposimato was also a former senator and television personality. Speaking to students at Rome University on November 8, 2001 concerning the question of the clash of civilizations, Imposimato made clear that his own view of 9/11 centered on “the participation of internal US forces” in the attacks."  http://www.indymedia.org.uk



Essay Two Towers of Lies 4/9/07:  "The basic thesis of my book (La Grande Menzogna,  2006), which is based on documents,   declarations, testimonies, legal proceedings and the results of investigations by American commissions is simple: the War in   Iraq was not the just and unavoidable answer of the United States and   Great Britain to the attack on the Twin Towers and the Pentagon, which they blamed on the treachery and malice of  Saddam   Hussein and who they also claimed was guilty of attempting to obtain  atomic weapons in order   to destroy the unsuspecting and innocent America. 

 In reality, the War in Iraq, waged against the will of the overwhelming   majority of world-wide public opinion,  Pope John Paul II, and the  United Nations, although it was launched  20 March 2003, had been planned for a long time  before that.  There were multiple objectives for the War: the conquest of the  oil resources of the Middle East, the extension of the imperial   dominion of the United States and the support to the war industry   of America,  which spends 450 billions of dollars each year (the   same amount as all the rest of the   world combined and it all goes to a single entity: the Pentagon). 

 In order to justify this unjust war and its deaths,   that still today kills thousands of innocent victims in Iraq and all   over the world, with unpredictable effects on international peace, a gigantic conspiracy came into being, that saw the   participation of the CIA, the Mossad,  MI5 (the British service)   and of the SISMI (Italy's Military Intelligence and Security Service), of some journalists of the Washington Post and the   New York Times, and the main collaborators in the White House and  the Pentagon. ...          
			



            The War in Iraq, in truth, was predicated on two false   schemes prepared well before 9/11. The first was   that Saddam had tried to import uranium ore [Yellowcake] from Niger, which was in the planning nine months before 9/11, the Joint British Committee  Intelligence wrote in a its relationship: "confirmed sources do not  say that the Iraqis  are interested in acquiring uranium".   The second one was that Saddam Hussein had ties with the terrorists of 9/11." (Original in Italian) http://www.megachip.info



Signatory: Lawyers for 9/11 Truth petition requesting a reinvestigation of 9/11: 

 "Lawyers are trained to value the Constitution and the rule of law. 

 We  are trained to examine evidence and to spot cover-ups or  inconsistencies in the evidence and bias in witnesses or  decision-makers. 

 Attorneys are also experts in weighing conflicting evidence. 

 For all of the above reasons, many  lawyers have concluded that the 9/11 Commission and other government  examinations were wholly inadequate, and did not follow proper rules of  evidence or procedure. 

 We are demanding an end to the 9/11  cover-up, and a full investigation by unbiased people with subpoena  power ... and the courage to demand that the Constitution and rule of  law are followed, and all guilty persons held accountable for their  actions. 

 The following legal scholars,  judges and attorneys demand an end to the 9/11 cover-up, a new, full  and unbiased investigation, and punishment of all guilty parties." http://www.l911t.com 



Blog: http://ferdinandoimposimato.blogspot.com




 
 

Giulietto                    Chiesa


      Giulietto                    Chiesa – Member of European Parliament, 2004 - present (Italy).  Vice Chairman, Committee on International Trade.  Member of Committee on Security and Defense.  Journalist 1980 - 2004.
      
        
Member: Political Leaders for 9/11 Truth Association Statement: 

 "Scholars and professionals with various kinds of expertise---including  architects, engineers, firefighters, intelligence officers, lawyers,  medical professionals, military officers, philosophers, religious  leaders, physical scientists, and pilots---have spoken out about  radical discrepancies between the official account of the 9/11 attacks  and what they, as independent researchers, have learned. 

 They  have established beyond any reasonable doubt that the official account  of 9/11 is false and that, therefore, the official “investigations”  have really been cover-up operations. 

 Thus far, however, there  has been no response from political leaders in Washington or, for that  matter, in other capitals around the world. Our organization, Political  Leaders for 9/11 Truth, has been formed to help bring about such a  response. 

 We believe that the truth about 9/11 needs to be  exposed now---not in 50 years as a footnote in the history books---so  the policies that have been based on the Bush-Cheney administration’s  interpretation of the 9/11 attacks can be changed. 

 We are,  therefore, calling for a new, independent investigation of 9/11 that  takes account of evidence that has been documented by independent  researchers but thus far ignored by governments and the mainstream  media."



Co-author: 9/11: Breaking the Wall of Silence Petition 12/07, which states:  

 "September 11, 2001 has changed the course of  history and changed the entire global framework.  Following the tragic and  spectacular attack, which killed three thousand innocent people, most of the truisms  of western culture have been shattered.   9/11 was followed by a U.S.  offensive that has already produced two wars and changed not only the  geopolitics of entire areas of the planet, but also the balance of power that had  evolved over the previous decades. 

 Although the attack has been responsible for changing the world with remarkable  speed, a comprehensive explanation of the events of September 11, and their  planning, took over three years to be drafted by a commission of inquiry  authorized by the Congress of the United States.  And a single entity has been judged to be  entirely responsible and condemned to life imprisonment. 

 However a careful analysis reveals that the official version of 9/11 is not  only deficient in dozens of essential points, but in dozens of other points it  is demonstrably false. 

 These falsehoods, the reluctance to begin the investigation, and the apparent  inconsistencies of the official story, raise most serious questions.  There is  no need to lie when the truth is clear. So, if the official powers lie, this  means that they want to prevent the emergence of truth.  And the deceit  indicates that the alleged suicide bombers did not act alone and that they had  powerful allies at various levels of the U.S. establishment: in the institutions  responsible for defending the security of the country. ... 

 Faced with so many inexplicable oddities surrounding such a crucial event in our  common history, we must ask questions and seek answers.  Many have done just  that in the last several years and a huge amount of facts, data analysis, and images  has already been collected and placed under the scrutiny of rigorous testing.  They confirmed all the suspicions.  We intend to add our own contribution to  this work, aware that peace and democracy are in serious danger until these  efforts manage to shed light on who was responsible and in what exact manner  the terrorist attacks of September 11 were made. ... 

 We are aware that assessments of the extent of official complicity in September  11 may vary considerably.  However we are  compelled by our conviction of the need for an independent investigation and because of the enormity of these implications that  it is absolutely essential.  We do  this on behalf of the victims, foremost, but also to defend world peace and the  lives of citizens, whose civil and human rights were seriously undermined, as a  result of September 11, as were the fundamental conventions of international  law."  The full text of the original petition in Italian is available at http://www.zerofilm.info



Speech 11/18/05 (video) : "Four years ago, an enormous media event changed  the course of the world.  Billions of  people were given only one explanation for that, which is entirely false.  Therefore everyone who dares to question it  is treated as if he was a fool.  … Media  are silent.  I believe you know what  event I am speaking of; September 11."  http://video.google.com



Bio: http://www.europarl.europa.eu/members




 
 
 
Gianni Vattimo 


      Gianni Vattimo  – Member of European Parliament, 1999 - 2004 (Italy). 
      Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs.  Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.   Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport. 

 One of Italy's foremost contemporary philosophers.  Internationally recognized author, philosopher, and politician.
      
       Professor of Philosophy  and former Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Philosophy, University of Turin.  Former visiting  professor, Yale University, University of California at Los Angeles, New York  University, and State University of New York.  Speaker and presenter at numerous seminars and  conferences at various universities worldwide.  Member of the Academy of Sciences  in Turin.   Recipient of honorary  degrees from several universities.  Author of hundreds of scholarly articles and more than a dozen books about philosophy, ethics, religion, and politics.  An extensive list of his publications can be found here.
      
Member: Political Leaders for 9/11 Truth Association Statement: 

 "Scholars and professionals with various kinds of expertise---including  architects, engineers, firefighters, intelligence officers, lawyers,  medical professionals, military officers, philosophers, religious  leaders, physical scientists, and pilots---have spoken out about  radical discrepancies between the official account of the 9/11 attacks  and what they, as independent researchers, have learned. 

 They  have established beyond any reasonable doubt that the official account  of 9/11 is false and that, therefore, the official “investigations”  have really been cover-up operations. 

 Thus far, however, there  has been no response from political leaders in Washington or, for that  matter, in other capitals around the world. Our organization, Political  Leaders for 9/11 Truth, has been formed to help bring about such a  response. 

 We believe that the truth about 9/11 needs to be  exposed now---not in 50 years as a footnote in the history books---so  the policies that have been based on the Bush-Cheney administration’s  interpretation of the 9/11 attacks can be changed. 

 We are,  therefore, calling for a new, independent investigation of 9/11 that  takes account of evidence that has been documented by independent  researchers but thus far ignored by governments and the mainstream  media."



Signatory: 9/11: Breaking the Wall of Silence Petition 12/07, which states:  

 "September 11, 2001 has changed the course of  history and changed the entire global framework.  Following the tragic and  spectacular attack, which killed three thousand innocent people, most of the truisms  of western culture have been shattered.   9/11 was followed by a U.S.  offensive that has already produced two wars and changed not only the  geopolitics of entire areas of the planet, but also the balance of power that had  evolved over the previous decades. 

 Although the attack has been responsible for changing the world with remarkable  speed, a comprehensive explanation of the events of September 11, and their  planning, took over three years to be drafted by a commission of inquiry  authorized by the Congress of the United States.  And a single entity has been judged to be  entirely responsible and condemned to life imprisonment. 

 However a careful analysis reveals that the official version of 9/11 is not  only deficient in dozens of essential points, but in dozens of other points it  is demonstrably false. 

 These falsehoods, the reluctance to begin the investigation, and the apparent  inconsistencies of the official story, raise most serious questions.  There is  no need to lie when the truth is clear. So, if the official powers lie, this  means that they want to prevent the emergence of truth.  And the deceit  indicates that the alleged suicide bombers did not act alone and that they had  powerful allies at various levels of the U.S. establishment: in the institutions  responsible for defending the security of the country. ... 

 Faced with so many inexplicable oddities surrounding such a crucial event in our  common history, we must ask questions and seek answers.  Many have done just  that in the last several years and a huge amount of facts, data analysis, and images  has already been collected and placed under the scrutiny of rigorous testing.  They confirmed all the suspicions.  We intend to add our own contribution to  this work, aware that peace and democracy are in serious danger until these  efforts manage to shed light on who was responsible and in what exact manner  the terrorist attacks of September 11 were made. ... 

 We are aware that assessments of the extent of official complicity in September  11 may vary considerably.  However we are  compelled by our conviction of the need for an independent investigation and because of the enormity of these implications that  it is absolutely essential.  We do  this on behalf of the victims, foremost, but also to defend world peace and the  lives of citizens, whose civil and human rights were seriously undermined, as a  result of September 11, as were the fundamental conventions of international  law."  The full text of the original petition in Italian is available at http://www.zerofilm.info



Bio: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gianni_Vattimo



Website: http://www.giannivattimo.it/




 
 

Fernando Rossi 


      Fernando Rossi  – Former Senator, Italy.  Secretary  of the Senate's Committee on Constitutional Affairs.  Member of the Parliamentary Commission for Regional Issues.  Member of the Committee on Finance and the Treasury.
      
Signatory: 9/11: Breaking the Wall of Silence Petition 12/07, which states: 


 
		  "September 11, 2001 has changed the course of  history and changed the entire global framework.  Following the tragic and  spectacular attack, which killed three thousand innocent people, most of the truisms  of western culture have been shattered.   9/11 was followed by a U.S.  offensive that has already produced two wars and changed not only the  geopolitics of entire areas of the planet, but also the balance of power that had  evolved over the previous decades. 		  
		  

 

Although the attack has been responsible for changing the world with remarkable  speed, a comprehensive explanation of the events of September 11, and their  planning, took over three years to be drafted by a commission of inquiry  authorized by the Congress of the United States.  And a single entity has been judged to be  entirely responsible and condemned to life imprisonment.		  
		  

 

However a careful analysis reveals that the official version of 9/11 is not  only deficient in dozens of essential points, but in dozens of other points it  is demonstrably false.		  
		  

 

These falsehoods, the reluctance to begin the investigation, and the apparent  inconsistencies of the official story, raise most serious questions.  There is  no need to lie when the truth is clear. So, if the official powers lie, this  means that they want to prevent the emergence of truth.  And the deceit  indicates that the alleged suicide bombers did not act alone and that they had  powerful allies at various levels of the U.S. establishment: in the institutions  responsible for defending the security of the country. ... 		  
		  

 

 Faced with so many inexplicable oddities surrounding such a crucial event in our  common history, we must ask questions and seek answers.  Many have done just  that in the last several years and a huge amount of facts, data analysis, and images  has already been collected and placed under the scrutiny of rigorous testing.  They confirmed all the suspicions.  We intend to add our own contribution to  this work, aware that peace and democracy are in serious danger until these  efforts manage to shed light on who was responsible and in what exact manner  the terrorist attacks of September 11 were made. ... 		  
		  

 

 We are aware that assessments of the extent of official complicity in September  11 may vary considerably.  However we are  compelled by our conviction of the need for an independent investigation and because of the enormity of these implications that  it is absolutely essential.  We do  this on behalf of the victims, foremost, but also to defend world peace and the  lives of citizens, whose civil and human rights were seriously undermined, as a  result of September 11, as were the fundamental conventions of international  law."  The full text of the original petition in Italian is available at http://www.zerofilm.info



Bio: http://www.senato.it




 
 

Roland Dumas 


      Roland Dumas  – Foreign Minister of France (equivalent to the U.S. Secretary of State) 1984-1986 and 1988-1993, periods which included  the collapse of the Soviet Block, the Gulf War, and the negotiations of the Maastricht Treaty.  Minister for European Affairs 1983-1984. President of the Constitutional Council 1995-1999.
      Elected Member of the National Assembly of France 1956-1958, 1967-1968, 1981-1983, 1986-1988.
      
Video interview on Tonight or Never with Frederic Taddei 12/16/10:  

"I'll tell you what I think about September 11. I don't believe it." http://www.reopen911.info



Interview by Hisham Hamza of Oumma.com 12/17/10



Question:  You said last night on Frederic Taddei’s show that you do not believe in Sept. 11. What do you mean by that?

		

Roland Dumas:  I think it cannot be more clear.  I do not believe what was told about it.

		

Question:   What do you mean  exactly?

		

Roland Dumas:  There  are many abnormal facts in the official version.  I  read and studied a lot of research done on this issue. Many items do not hold up (to scrutiny).  Just look, for example, at the  hole in the Pentagon made by the plane.   It's much too small.  And there  are other less known aspects.

		


Question:  Does the official version seem to you to be untrue or just incomplete?

		

Roland Dumas: Again, just take a serious look at it to get an idea. ... Indeed, the official version does not hold up (to scrutiny).
		http://oumma.com/Roland-Dumas-Le-11-Septembre-je-n   



Bio: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Roland_Dumas




 
 

Christine Boutin


      Christine Boutin – Minister of Housing and Urban Affairs, France (appointed on 5/18/07).  Founder and leader of the French political party, Forum des républicains sociaux (Forum of Social Republicans, FRS).  Presidential candidate in 2002.    Former Deputy of the French National Assembly (equivalent to a U.S. Congressperson).
      
Video interview with Karl Zéro 11/24/06:  

 Question:  Do you think that Bush could be the instigator of the [9/11] attacks? 

 Christine Boutin:  I think that it is possible. And this conviction is reinforced by the fact that the websites dealing with this issue are among the most popular on the Internet.  Personally, I feel so concerned about information and communication technologies and I say to myself that this mass expression, this voice of people cannot be totally wrong. ... 

 I'm not telling you that I adhere to that position but let's say that, nevertheless, I'm questioning myself a bit on  this question. 

 [Alternative translation of Christine Boutin's remark. "I think that it's possible. And I think it all the more so because I  know that the sites that are talking about these problems are sites  that get the most traffic. As someone who is quite sensitive to the  problem of new practices of news and communication, it seems to me that  this expression of the masses, coming from the people, can't be  completely without truth. ... 

 I'm not telling you that I adhere to that position but let's say that, nevertheless, I'm questioning myself a bit on  this question."] http://www.rue89.com and http://sfgate.com



Bio: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Christine_Boutin



Blog: http://www.frs-ladroitehumaine.fr



 
 

Col.
    Pierre-Henri Bunel

      Col.
      Pierre-Henri Bunel, French Army (ret) – Army intelligence and artillery officer.  Graduate of  École
      Militaire of St. Cyr.  Expert in the effects of artillery weapons and explosives. Served in the Gulf War as battlefield damage assessment officer and aide-de-camp to French General Michel Roquejoffre.  Bunel was one of four French  officers decorated by General Norman Schwarzkopf for service in the  Gulf War.  Also Served in French and NATO operations in Somalia, Rwanda, Bosnia and Yugoslavia.  24-year army career. 
      
          
Essay included in Pentagate by Thierry Meyssan (2002): Regarding Department of Defense photos of the Pentagon on 9/11 - "This image of the impact on the Pentagon is very instructive as to the nature of the explosion. ... It corresponds to a detonation of an explosive with high energetic power.  The explosion does not correspond to a deflagration of kerosene [as would result from the impact of an airliner]. ... 

 One distinguishes at ground level, starting from the right-hand side of  the photo and going to the base of the mass of white vapor, a white  line of smoke. ... As opposed to the smoke  that would come out of two kerosene-fueled engines, this smoke is  white. The turbojets of a Boeing 757 would in fact leave a trail of  much blacker smoke. The examination of this photo alone already  suggests a single engine flying vehicle much smaller in size than an  airliner.  ... 

 The last photo was produced by the Department of Defense and published on a Navy Web site. In examining it, one  can see an almost circular hole topped by a black smudge, This  perforation is about seven feet in diameter and is situated in the wall  of the third line of buildings working inward from the façade. It is  supposed to have been made by the nose of the plane.  That would mean that the nose of the  aircraft, a radome of carbon fiber that is far from being armored,  would have traversed without destroying them six load-bearing walls of  building considered to be rather solid. ... The appearance of the perforation in the wall certainly resembles the  effects of anti-concrete hollow charges that I have been able to  observe on a number of battlefields. ... 

 This photo, and the effects described in the official version, lead me  therefore to think that the detonation that struck the building was  that of a high-powered hollow charge used to destroy hardened buildings  and carried by an aerial vehicle, a missile." http://www.voltairenet



Editor's note: For more information on the impact at the Pentagon, see General Stubblebine, Colonel Nelson, Commander Muga, Lt. Col. Kwiatkowski, Lt. Col. Latas, Major Rokke, Capt. Wittenberg  , Capt. Davis, Barbara Honegger, April Gallop, and Steve DeChiaro. 




 
 

Birgitta Jónsdóttir


      Birgitta Jónsdóttir – Member of Parliament, Iceland.  Member of the Committee on the Environment. Member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.  Member of the Icelandic delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly.
      
Signatory: War Is Illegal Petition 12/07, which states:  

 "Against a background of escalating ecological crises, and the fact that  large parts of the world´s population are being exposed to extreme  poverty, inhuman working conditions and increasing social tensions, the  annual global military expenditure has risen to more than 1,000 billion  dollars. 

 The military-industrial complex of just a few G8 countries  is responsible for the overwhelming part of this spending, causing  incalculable social and ecological consequences. 

 Unequal  distribution of global resources, increasingly controlled by large  multinational companies, global debt policy and unfair international  trading practices ultimately could not be maintained without military  security. In many countries the military is used to repress critical  opposition. 

 The terror attacks of September 11, 2001 are increasingly used to  justify systematic surveillance and the dismantling of constitutional  rights.  [Bold added for emphasis by Editor of this website.]  Even European countries have helped to establish Guantanomo-like secret  prisons, where torture in all probability takes place. 

 Iraq was attacked based on falsified evidence causing the death of  hundreds of thousands of people, widespread destruction,  destabilization and contamination with cancer-causing depleted uranium  munitions. 

 Now plans to attack Iran and the possibility of a new World War have  been made public, meeting resistance even from moderate elements within  the military due to the unforeseeable consequences. 

 Faced with the choice between a war, that according to some western  leaders, will last for many years or a possible peaceful transformation  we support the following demands: ... 

 International investigation of the September 11, 2001 terror attacks.  They are used as the central justification for the "War on Terror", but  well documented evidence shows that the official explanation of 9/11  cannot be correct.  International personalities in science, politics,  and culture, including high-ranking military veterans, have called for  a new investigation." [Bold added for emphasis by Editor of this website.]  The full text of the petition is available at http://www.war-is-illegal.org



Website: http://this.is/birgitta/




 
 

Yukihisa Fujita
  

Yukihisa Fujita's speech at
        the House of Councillors 


      Yukihisa Fujita – Member, House of Councillors (the upper house), National Diet  of Japan.    	Member and former Director, Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defense.  Former Member of the House of Representatives.  Former Director General of the International  Department of the Democratic Party of Japan.
        
Endorsement of The New Pearl Harbor Revisited: 9/11, the Cover-Up, and the Exposé: by David Ray Griffin 9/30/08:
		   

 
		  "Citizens in many countries are waging a war on the cover-up of the  basis for the so-called war on terror–this basis being the official  interpretation of the 9/11 attacks. Along with the Internet, which has  equipped both public figures and ordinary citizens to wage this war on  the cover-up, David Ray Griffin has revealed dozens of omissions,  distortions, and contradictions in the official story in a way that  provides undeniable evidence of its falsity. The New Pearl Harbor  Revisited presents a powerful exposé of the false narrative that has  been driving the mainstream political agenda since 9/11. It is now up  to politicians and journalists around the world to expose this truth to  our peoples." http://davidraygriffin.com



Member: Political Leaders for 9/11 Truth Association Statement: 

 "Scholars and professionals with various kinds of expertise---including  architects, engineers, firefighters, intelligence officers, lawyers,  medical professionals, military officers, philosophers, religious  leaders, physical scientists, and pilots---have spoken out about  radical discrepancies between the official account of the 9/11 attacks  and what they, as independent researchers, have learned. 

 They  have established beyond any reasonable doubt that the official account  of 9/11 is false and that, therefore, the official “investigations”  have really been cover-up operations. 

 Thus far, however, there  has been no response from political leaders in Washington or, for that  matter, in other capitals around the world. Our organization, Political  Leaders for 9/11 Truth, has been formed to help bring about such a  response. 

 We believe that the truth about 9/11 needs to be  exposed now---not in 50 years as a footnote in the history books---so  the policies that have been based on the Bush-Cheney administration’s  interpretation of the 9/11 attacks can be changed. 

 We are,  therefore, calling for a new, independent investigation of 9/11 that  takes account of evidence that has been documented by independent  researchers but thus far ignored by governments and the mainstream  media."



Session of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defense of the House of Councilors  1/10/08: In a 40-minute presentation on the floor of the House of Councillors (the upper house of the legislature), Yukihisa Fujita directly questioned the official version of 9/11.  Present in the session and responding to Mr. Fujita's questions were Japanese  Prime Minister  Yasuo Fukuda and members of his Cabinet. 

 Mr. Fujita  stated that no official police investigation had been conducted into  the deaths of the 24 Japanese citizens who were killed on 9/11. 

 He  also said  that many people worldwide doubt the official account of 9/11 and  much evidence has been collected  that contradicts the  government's version of 9/11, evidence which can be seen on many websites. 

 During Mr. Fujita's speech, several large photos were sequentially displayed of:
  - the alleged path of Flight 77 to the Pentagon
  - the Pentagon entry and exit holes and a correctly scaled 
    overlay of a Boeing 757
  - the WTC Twin Towers exploding
  - New York firefighter Capt. Dennis Tardio  discussing 
    detonators at the WTC 
  - the collapse of WTC Building 7

 Mr. Fujita demanded further investigation of the events of 9/11. 

 Video of Mr. Fujita's presentation, including Prime Minister Fukuda's and his Cabinet members' responses, can be seen in three segments at  Part 1, Part 2, Part 3
			



Editor's note: WTC Building 7 was 610 feet tall, 47 stories.  It would have been the tallest building in 33 states.  Although it was not hit by an airplane, it  completely collapsed into a pile of rubble in less than 7 seconds at 5:20 p.m. on 9/11, seven hours after the collapses of the Twin Towers.  However, no mention of its collapse appears in the 9/11 Commission's "full and complete account of the circumstances surrounding the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks."  Watch the collapse video here.  And six years after 9/11, the Federal government has yet to publish its promised final report that explains the cause of its collapse.



Website: http://www.y-fujita.com/




 
 

Tadashi Inuzuka


Tadashi Inuzuka, MBA  – Member, House of Councillors (the upper house), National Diet  of Japan.    	Director, Committee on Budget. Member, Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. Member, Special Committee on Official Development Assistance and Related Matters.

Member: Political Leaders for 9/11 Truth Association Statement: 
		        


"Scholars and professionals with various kinds of expertise---including  architects, engineers, firefighters, intelligence officers, lawyers,  medical professionals, military officers, philosophers, religious  leaders, physical scientists, and pilots---have spoken out about  radical discrepancies between the official account of the 9/11 attacks  and what they, as independent researchers, have learned.
        



They  have established beyond any reasonable doubt that the official account  of 9/11 is false and that, therefore, the official “investigations”  have really been cover-up operations.
        



Thus far, however, there  has been no response from political leaders in Washington or, for that  matter, in other capitals around the world. Our organization, Political  Leaders for 9/11 Truth, has been formed to help bring about such a  response.
        



We believe that the truth about 9/11 needs to be  exposed now---not in 50 years as a footnote in the history books---so  the policies that have been based on the Bush-Cheney administration’s  interpretation of the 9/11 attacks can be changed.
        



We are,  therefore, calling for a new, independent investigation of 9/11 that  takes account of evidence that has been documented by independent  researchers but thus far ignored by governments and the mainstream  media."



Website: http://tadashi-inuzuka.jp




 
 

Jeanette Fitzsimons


Jeanette Fitzsimons – Member of Parliament, New Zealand, 1996 - present.    	Co-leader of the Green Party. Member, Transport and Industrial Relations Committee. Member, Emissions Trading Scheme Review Committee. Former Lecturer in Environmental Studies and Energy Planning, Department of Planning, Auckland University   1980-1992.          

Personal statement in support of the Political Leaders petition for a new 9/11 investigation: 
          


					 "There is so much that does not make sense about the official version of 9/11. I have read all 600 plus pages of Crossing the Rubicon and it appears to me to be well researched, though I still have an open mind on the matter of what exactly did happen. It is time we knew the truth one way or another, and an independent enquiry is the way to achieve this. If we do not know the truth of our history it will compromise our future."					   http://pl911truth.com



Member: Political Leaders for 9/11 Truth Association Statement: 

 "Scholars and professionals with various kinds of expertise---including  architects, engineers, firefighters, intelligence officers, lawyers,  medical professionals, military officers, philosophers, religious  leaders, physical scientists, and pilots---have spoken out about  radical discrepancies between the official account of the 9/11 attacks  and what they, as independent researchers, have learned. 

 They  have established beyond any reasonable doubt that the official account  of 9/11 is false and that, therefore, the official “investigations”  have really been cover-up operations. 

 Thus far, however, there  has been no response from political leaders in Washington or, for that  matter, in other capitals around the world. Our organization, Political  Leaders for 9/11 Truth, has been formed to help bring about such a  response. 

 We believe that the truth about 9/11 needs to be  exposed now---not in 50 years as a footnote in the history books---so  the policies that have been based on the Bush-Cheney administration’s  interpretation of the 9/11 attacks can be changed. 

 We are,  therefore, calling for a new, independent investigation of 9/11 that  takes account of evidence that has been documented by independent  researchers but thus far ignored by governments and the mainstream  media."




 
 

Douglas Nixon Everingham, MBBS


Douglas Nixon Everingham, MBBS – Member, House of Representatives, Australia 1967 - 1975 and 1977 - 1984.  Minister for Health 1972 - 1975. Vice-President, World Health Assembly  1975. Parliamentary Adviser, Australia's delegation to the United Nations 1982. Appointed Member by the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade to the National Consultative Committee on Peace and Disarmament 1998 - 2000. Former family and hospital doctor and psychiatric registrar.

Member: Medical Professionals for 9/11 Truth Association Statement: 

 "As medical professionals, we are trained in science and logical reasoning. We  are appalled by the lack of scientific rigor and the substantial omissions and blatant distortions in the official account of 9/11 as embodied in the 9/11 Commission Report and related government documents. We join with other organizations of professionals, such as Architects and Engineers for 9/11 Truth, Pilots for 9/11 Truth, Firefighters for 9/11 Truth, and Lawyers for 9/11 Truth, and millions of individual citizens in demanding a thorough, impartial, open and transparent reinvestigation of the terrorist acts of 9/11."



Personal statement in support of the Political Leaders petition for a new 9/11 investigation: 

 "Unless U.S. and allied (including Australian) leaders move to demand  independent investigation of the 9/11 catastrophe, the military sequels  in Iraq and Afghanistan must be widely seen as war crimes falsely  labeled as a war on terror." http://pl911truth.com



Member: Political Leaders for 9/11 Truth Association Statement: 

 "Scholars and professionals with various kinds of expertise---including  architects, engineers, firefighters, intelligence officers, lawyers,  medical professionals, military officers, philosophers, religious  leaders, physical scientists, and pilots---have spoken out about  radical discrepancies between the official account of the 9/11 attacks  and what they, as independent researchers, have learned. 

 They  have established beyond any reasonable doubt that the official account  of 9/11 is false and that, therefore, the official “investigations”  have really been cover-up operations. 

 Thus far, however, there  has been no response from political leaders in Washington or, for that  matter, in other capitals around the world. Our organization, Political  Leaders for 9/11 Truth, has been formed to help bring about such a  response. 

 We believe that the truth about 9/11 needs to be  exposed now---not in 50 years as a footnote in the history books---so  the policies that have been based on the Bush-Cheney administration’s  interpretation of the 9/11 attacks can be changed. 

 We are,  therefore, calling for a new, independent investigation of 9/11 that  takes account of evidence that has been documented by independent  researchers but thus far ignored by governments and the mainstream  media."




 

Paul Lannoye 


      Paul Lannoye – Member of European Parliament, 1989 - 2004 (Belgium).  Former Vice Chairman, Committee on Energy,  Research and Technology.  Former Vice Chairman,  Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection.
      
      
Member: Political Leaders for 9/11 Truth Association Statement: 

 "Scholars and professionals with various kinds of expertise---including  architects, engineers, firefighters, intelligence officers, lawyers,  medical professionals, military officers, philosophers, religious  leaders, physical scientists, and pilots---have spoken out about  radical discrepancies between the official account of the 9/11 attacks  and what they, as independent researchers, have learned. 

 They  have established beyond any reasonable doubt that the official account  of 9/11 is false and that, therefore, the official “investigations”  have really been cover-up operations. 

 Thus far, however, there  has been no response from political leaders in Washington or, for that  matter, in other capitals around the world. Our organization, Political  Leaders for 9/11 Truth, has been formed to help bring about such a  response. 

 We believe that the truth about 9/11 needs to be  exposed now---not in 50 years as a footnote in the history books---so  the policies that have been based on the Bush-Cheney administration’s  interpretation of the 9/11 attacks can be changed. 

 We are,  therefore, calling for a new, independent investigation of 9/11 that  takes account of evidence that has been documented by independent  researchers but thus far ignored by governments and the mainstream  media."



Open Letter 5/24/04: "I implore legislators, parliamentarians, and citizens worldwide to  become involved in the global 9-11 Truth Movement by signing up at  www.911Visibility.org and www.911Truth.org. These organizations have  worked with 9-11 family members, and citizens worldwide to lobby  government, media, and the 9-11 Commission to demand truth, and to hold  public actions to educate the world about the apparent 9-11 cover up." http://www.911truth.org



Bio:http://www.paullannoye.be/carriere.php




 
 

Pierre Galand


      Pierre Galand  – Former Senator, Belgium.  Professor of Economics and President of the Lay Action Center (Centre d'Action Laïque), University of Brussels.  Former Secretary General of Oxfam - Belgium 1966 - 1997.  President, World Organization Against Torture - Europe . Served as President of several international Non-Governmental Organizations, a complete list of which can be seen here.
      
 Supporter of United for Truth platform 8/29/08: 

 "In solidarity with the American citizens, we demand an  independent investigation of the 9/11 attacks, which were the pretext  for too many wars, lies, and a serious decrease of our civil rights. 

 We want  European troops back home!  We want European laws that guarantee  neutrality of the internet and that explicitly forbid tracing/chipping  (RFID) of human beings as well as other electronic threats on our  freedom.  We want democratic and public control of financial  organizations and the mass media.  But most of all we  want you to get your life back." 

 We  do not claim to know or report "what really happened on 9/11". Until  an independent investigation take place we shouldn't even claim it was  an "inside job". 

 We want to break the wall of silence and the  actual isolation of the so called "9-11 truth movement" in Europe when  the majority of the US citizen do ask for that independent  investigation. 

 We want to put the 9/11 in its context and link  it to its consequences as 9/11 was a pretext to military wars against  innocent people, political wars against freedom around the world and on  the net, economical wars against the whole population and the planet  itself."  http://www.unitedfortruth.org/ 
  


Bio: http://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pierre_Galand
  


Website: www.pierregaland.be




 
 

Berit Ås


      Berit Ås  – Former Member of Parliament, Norway.  Professor Emerita and Former President of the Feminist University, Norway.  Former Professor of Social Psychology, University of Oslo 1968 - 1994.  Visiting Professor: University of Missouri, Mount Saint Vincent University (Canada), and University of Uppsala (Sweden).  Former President of the International    Federation of University Women in Norway.  Noted feminist.
      Awarded honorary doctorate degrees by the University of Copenhagen, the University of Halifax in Canada and  Uppsala University.

Member: Political Leaders for 9/11 Truth Association Statement: 

 "Scholars and professionals with various kinds of expertise---including  architects, engineers, firefighters, intelligence officers, lawyers,  medical professionals, military officers, philosophers, religious  leaders, physical scientists, and pilots---have spoken out about  radical discrepancies between the official account of the 9/11 attacks  and what they, as independent researchers, have learned. 

 They  have established beyond any reasonable doubt that the official account  of 9/11 is false and that, therefore, the official “investigations”  have really been cover-up operations. 

 Thus far, however, there  has been no response from political leaders in Washington or, for that  matter, in other capitals around the world. Our organization, Political  Leaders for 9/11 Truth, has been formed to help bring about such a  response. 

 We believe that the truth about 9/11 needs to be  exposed now---not in 50 years as a footnote in the history books---so  the policies that have been based on the Bush-Cheney administration’s  interpretation of the 9/11 attacks can be changed. 

 We are,  therefore, calling for a new, independent investigation of 9/11 that  takes account of evidence that has been documented by independent  researchers but thus far ignored by governments and the mainstream  media."



Founding Member: The Norwegian 9/11 Press Conference Group  Association Statement:  "The Norwegian 911 Press Conference Group was established on a private initiative in January 2007 almost as an  emergency solution to what we perceived as a systematic unwillingness  by the Norwegian mainstream media to present, discuss and analyze a  wealth of indisputable facts that each indicated or proved that the  terrorist attack in USA on 11. September 2001 must have been an inside  job.  With 'inside job' we mean that a network of persons from the top  echelons of the American Establishment, administration, government and  intelligence planned, directed and executed the terrorist act."



Bio: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Berit_%C3%85s




 
 

Per Mohn 


Per Mohn  – Former Deputy Representative to the Norwegian Parliament.
        
Member: Political Leaders for 9/11 Truth Association Statement: 

 "Scholars and professionals with various kinds of expertise---including  architects, engineers, firefighters, intelligence officers, lawyers,  medical professionals, military officers, philosophers, religious  leaders, physical scientists, and pilots---have spoken out about  radical discrepancies between the official account of the 9/11 attacks  and what they, as independent researchers, have learned. 

 They  have established beyond any reasonable doubt that the official account  of 9/11 is false and that, therefore, the official “investigations”  have really been cover-up operations. 

 Thus far, however, there  has been no response from political leaders in Washington or, for that  matter, in other capitals around the world. Our organization, Political  Leaders for 9/11 Truth, has been formed to help bring about such a  response. 

 We believe that the truth about 9/11 needs to be  exposed now---not in 50 years as a footnote in the history books---so  the policies that have been based on the Bush-Cheney administration’s  interpretation of the 9/11 attacks can be changed. 

 We are,  therefore, calling for a new, independent investigation of 9/11 that  takes account of evidence that has been documented by independent  researchers but thus far ignored by governments and the mainstream  media."




 
 
 
 
Lt. Commander Rolf Hustad
      No photo available 



      Lt. Commander Rolf Hustad, Royal Norwegian Navy  – Former weapons specialist and artillery officer.  12-year military career.
      
Statement in support of Architects and Engineers petition:


 

 "The statistical chance of the only 3 steel framed buildings ever to  collapse [due to fire], owned by the same person, with a special clause for terrorist  act, occurring in the same day, is just too remote for anyone to grasp!
		
		

 

He [Larry Silverstein] even admits to "pulling the building" in a TV interview!"  http://www.ae911truth.org 



Signatory: Petition requesting a reinvestigation of 9/11, signed by more than 1,500 Architects and Engineers:



"On Behalf of the People of the United States of America, the     undersigned Architects and Engineers for 9/11 Truth and     affiliates  hereby petition for, and demand, a truly     independent investigation with subpoena power in order to     uncover the full truth surrounding the events of 9/11/01 -     specifically the collapse of the World Trade Center Towers and     Building 7.  We believe that there is sufficient doubt about     the official story and therefore that the 9/11 investigation     must be re-opened and must include a full inquiry into the     possible use of explosives that may have been the actual cause     behind the destruction of the World Trade Center Towers and     WTC Building 7." http://www.ae911truth.org/joinus.php

 
Editor's note: WTC Building 7 was 610 feet tall, 47 stories.  It would have been the tallest building in 33 states.  Although it was not hit by an airplane, it  completely collapsed into a pile of rubble in less than 7 seconds at 5:20 p.m. on 9/11, seven hours after the collapses of the Twin Towers.  However, no mention of its collapse appears in the 9/11 Commission's "full and complete account of the circumstances surrounding the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks."  Watch the collapse video here.  And six years after 9/11, the Federal government has yet to publish its promised final report that explains the cause of its collapse.




 
 

Ole Gerstrom 


Ole Gerstrom  – Former Member of Parliament, Denmark 

Personal statement in support of the Political Leaders petition for a new 9/11 investigation: 

 "I have studied the events of 9/11 since the very day. The more I get  down into the facts, the more obvious it is that this was an inside  job. The planning must have taken years. The cover-up is being worked  at hard. The significance for our poor planet is enormous. Getting the  truth out will change the political climate like we have never seen  before." http://pl911truth.com



Member: Political Leaders for 9/11 Truth Association Statement: 

 "Scholars and professionals with various kinds of expertise---including  architects, engineers, firefighters, intelligence officers, lawyers,  medical professionals, military officers, philosophers, religious  leaders, physical scientists, and pilots---have spoken out about  radical discrepancies between the official account of the 9/11 attacks  and what they, as independent researchers, have learned. 

 They  have established beyond any reasonable doubt that the official account  of 9/11 is false and that, therefore, the official “investigations”  have really been cover-up operations. 

 Thus far, however, there  has been no response from political leaders in Washington or, for that  matter, in other capitals around the world. Our organization, Political  Leaders for 9/11 Truth, has been formed to help bring about such a  response. 

 We believe that the truth about 9/11 needs to be  exposed now---not in 50 years as a footnote in the history books---so  the policies that have been based on the Bush-Cheney administration’s  interpretation of the 9/11 attacks can be changed. 

 We are,  therefore, calling for a new, independent investigation of 9/11 that  takes account of evidence that has been documented by independent  researchers but thus far ignored by governments and the mainstream  media."



 
 

Commander Jens Claus Hansen

      Commander Jens Claus Hansen, Royal Danish Navy  –  Director of Political Science, Danish Defense Academy 1998 - present.
        Editor of the Journal  of Naval Affairs of the Society of Danish Naval Lieutenants. 
       Assignments have included sea  duty in submarines and staff duty with the Defense Staff.
       
Interview on  Denmark’s DR-1 9/11/01 as reported in  9/11 Synthetic Terror: Made in USA by Webster Tarpley: 



		  "Additional bombs must have been placed   inside the WTC towers--otherwise they would not have collapsed as they   actually did." 
		  Video at http://www.i11time.dk/video/1972793:Video:111




 
 

Mat Herben


      Mat Herben  – Former Member of Parliament, Netherlands.  Vice Chairman of the Standing Committee for Defense. 
      Prior to election to public office, served for over 20 years as a journalist and editor in the Ministry of Defense.  
       Former Editor of Defensiekrant, 
      the weekly magazine of the Ministry of Defense.  Former Editor of Alle Hens and De Vliegende Hollander, the monthly magazines of the Netherlands Royal Navy and Air Force.
      
Article Metro News 8/31/06 (original in Dutch):  

 "Tomorrow the Dutch version DVD of Loose Change goes on the market. The  documentary asks questions about 9/11. 

 The documentary is introduced by, among others, politician Mat Herben,  defense specialist.  One of the main points of the documentary is the lack of large pieces of wreckage of the  airplane which flew into the Pentagon. 

 "Sometimes your eyes can deceive you.  It has been insufficiently shown that what happened at the Pentagon is really the same as what happened at the WTC," says Herben, referring to the presence of an airplane.  "More evidence is needed about the wreckage of the airplane." 

 A complete plane cannot evaporate.  And certainly engine parts must be  retrievable.  "Some wreckage must be observable.  If that is not the case, it raises questions.  How can it be possible that there  is no wreckage of the wings of the plane?", the politician asks in the film. 

 Regarding the [officially] released photos of the [Pentagon] explosion in which the airplane cannot be seen, Herben said, "The importance of this matter to the public requires you show that  flight approaching [the Pentagon].  Those  pictures must be shown.  If those pictures existed, by not showing them, you, as a  government, would be acting quite stupidly.  Or else you really have something to hide."  Translated from the original in Dutch.  http://www.waarheid911.nl/actualiteit310806.html 
Loose Change (Dutch edition) can be seen at http://video.google.nl



Website: http://www.matherben.nl/




 
 

Philippe Gratier, MA 



Philippe Gratier, MA  – Retired Interpreter, European Commission 1975 - 2006.
      Lecturer, Linguistics, University College London 1965 - 1975. 
        
Statement in support of Architects and Engineers petition: 

 "The official story doesn't add up. The investigations were incomplete.  It's disturbing not to know what's really going on. This area of  darkness fuels all kinds of speculations throughout the world. A lucid  account needs to be made, stating what's known, what is discovered and  what maybe remains unknown."  http://www.ae911truth.org



Signatory: Petition requesting a reinvestigation of 9/11, signed by more than 1,500 Architects and Engineers: 

 "On Behalf of the People of the United States of America, the     undersigned Architects and Engineers for 9/11 Truth and     affiliates  hereby petition for, and demand, a truly     independent investigation with subpoena power in order to     uncover the full truth surrounding the events of 9/11/01 -     specifically the collapse of the World Trade Center Towers and     Building 7.  We believe that there is sufficient doubt about     the official story and therefore that the 9/11 investigation     must be re-opened and must include a full inquiry into the     possible use of explosives that may have been the actual cause     behind the destruction of the World Trade Center Towers and     WTC Building 7." http://www.ae911truth.org/joinus.php



Editor's note: WTC Building 7 was 610 feet tall, 47 stories.  It would have been the tallest building in 33 states.  Although it was not hit by an airplane, it  completely collapsed into a pile of rubble in less than 7 seconds at 5:20 p.m. on 9/11, seven hours after the collapses of the Twin Towers.  However, no mention of its collapse appears in the 9/11 Commission's "full and complete account of the circumstances surrounding the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks."  Watch the collapse video here.   Finally, on 11/20/08, more than seven years after 9/11, the Federal government published its final report on the collapse of WTC 7, which "found that the fires on multiple floors in WTC 7, which were uncontrolled but otherwise similar to fires experienced in other tall buildings, caused an extraordinary event." Despite the absence of any visible fire at the time of collapse, the government report alleges WTC Building 7 is the first and only steel-framed high-rise building in the history of mankind to collapse simply as the result of a fire.




 
 

Heikki Kurttila, DSc 



      Heikki Kurttila, D.Sc. (Tech.) (Doctor of Technology) – Safety Engineer and Accident Analyst, National Safety Technology Authority (TUKES), Finland.  Specialist in the investigation of pressure vessel explosion  accidents and the impacts of the shock waves caused by them.  30 years experience.
      
Analysis of the collapse of WTC Building 7, 11/18/05:  

 "Conclusion: The observed collapse time of WTC 7 was 6.5 seconds. That is only half a second longer than it would have taken
          for the top of the building to fall to the ground in a vacuum, and half a second shorter than the falling time of an apple
          when air resistance is taken into account. ...
          
          The great speed of the collapse and the low value of the resistance factor strongly suggest controlled demolition."   http://www.saunalahti.fi     



Statement in support of Architects and Engineers petition: 

 "WTC Tower 1, 2 and 7 could not have collapsed by fires the way we saw  without extra auxiliaries, as for example, explosives.  NIST could not have  explained the collapses at all and it has left the 'official'  explanations to private persons who have failed, too.  The last attempt  was done by Dr. Seffen from Cambridge University (UK)  (http://www.exodus2006.com/911seffen.htm), but his paper can be  debunked to be false."  http://www.ae911truth.org



Signatory: Petition requesting a reinvestigation of 9/11, signed by more than 1,500 Architects and Engineers: 

 "On Behalf of the People of the United States of America, the     undersigned Architects and Engineers for 9/11 Truth and     affiliates  hereby petition for, and demand, a truly     independent investigation with subpoena power in order to     uncover the full truth surrounding the events of 9/11/01 -     specifically the collapse of the World Trade Center Towers and     Building 7.  We believe that there is sufficient doubt about     the official story and therefore that the 9/11 investigation     must be re-opened and must include a full inquiry into the     possible use of explosives that may have been the actual cause     behind the destruction of the World Trade Center Towers and     WTC Building 7." http://www.ae911truth.org/joinus.php



Editor's note: WTC Building 7 was 610 feet tall, 47 stories.  It would have been the tallest building in 33 states.  Although it was not hit by an airplane, it  completely collapsed into a pile of rubble in less than 7 seconds at 5:20 p.m. on 9/11, seven hours after the collapses of the Twin Towers.  However, no mention of its collapse appears in the 9/11 Commission's "full and complete account of the circumstances surrounding the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks."  Watch the collapse video here.  And six years after 9/11, the Federal government has yet to publish its promised final report that explains the cause of its collapse.





 
 


Vladimir Putin 



      Vladimir Putin – Prime Minister of Russia 2008 - present. President of Russia 1999 - 2008.  Former Head of the FSB (the successor agency to the KGB) 1998 - 1999.  Former KGB agent 1975 - 1991. 

Fox News Article 5/17/02: "Russian President Vladimir  Putin has said publicly that he ordered his intelligence agencies to  alert the United States last summer [2001] that suicide pilots were training  for attacks on U.S. targets." http://www.foxnews.com/



Editor's Note: The 9/11 Commission's "full and complete account of the circumstances surrounding the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks" contains  no mention of strong warnings of impending terrorist attacks prior to 9/11 presented to the U.S. by Italy (March), Germany (June), Cayman Islands (June), India (July), Argentina (July), Afghanistan (late-July), Russia (Summer), Jordan (late-Summer), UK (July and August), Israel (mid-August), Morocco (August), France (late-August), Egypt (July and early-September), several of which specifically warned of suicide airplane attacks.  These warnings prove that no imagination was needed to envision the events of 9/11, which is in direct contradiction to  9/11 Commission Chairman Thomas Kean's description of the main cause of 9/11 "... this was a failure of policy, management, capability,  and, above all, a failure of imagination."  See also Mary Schiavo, Former Inspector General, U.S. Department of  Transportation.



Bio: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vladamir_Putin






General Leonid Ivashov

 General Leonid Ivashov – Former Chief of Staff of the Russian armed forces  on 9/11/2001, and Department Chief for General affairs in the Soviet   Union's Ministry of Defense.
        
Essay 1/22/06: Regarding 9/11 "Only secret services and their current chiefs – or  those retired but still having influence inside the state organizations – have  the ability to plan, organize and conduct an operation of such magnitude. ...
		                         

          Osama bin Laden and "Al Qaeda" cannot be the organizers                   nor the performers of the September 11 attacks. They do not have                   the necessary organization, resources or leaders."  http://www.physics911.net/ivashov




 
 

Sergei Kolesnikov, PhD, MD


      Sergei Kolesnikov, PhD, MD – Member of Parliament (State Duma), Russian Federation. Deputy Chairman, Committee for Health Care.  Former Member of the USSR Parliament. Former Deputy Director, Russian Academy of Medical Sciences (RAMN). Co-President, International Physicians for Prevention Nuclear War (IPPNW)1991 - 1998 and 2008 - present. Awarded the Lenin Komsomol Prize in the field of science and technology 1984. Recipient of the Order of the Friendship of Peoples 1986. Recipient of Orders of Honour 1996 and 2007.  Designated Distinguished Scientist of Russia. Laureate of Government Prize for Science and Technology.  Author of more than 300 scientific articles, 19 monographers, 2 textbooks for universities.  Holder of 15 patents.
      
Member: Political Leaders for 9/11 Truth Association Statement: 

 "Scholars and professionals with various kinds of expertise---including  architects, engineers, firefighters, intelligence officers, lawyers,  medical professionals, military officers, philosophers, religious  leaders, physical scientists, and pilots---have spoken out about  radical discrepancies between the official account of the 9/11 attacks  and what they, as independent researchers, have learned. 

 They  have established beyond any reasonable doubt that the official account  of 9/11 is false and that, therefore, the official “investigations”  have really been cover-up operations. 

 Thus far, however, there  has been no response from political leaders in Washington or, for that  matter, in other capitals around the world. Our organization, Political  Leaders for 9/11 Truth, has been formed to help bring about such a  response. 

 We believe that the truth about 9/11 needs to be  exposed now---not in 50 years as a footnote in the history books---so  the policies that have been based on the Bush-Cheney administration’s  interpretation of the 9/11 attacks can be changed. 

 We are,  therefore, calling for a new, independent investigation of 9/11 that  takes account of evidence that has been documented by independent  researchers but thus far ignored by governments and the mainstream  media."



Bio: http://www.ippnw.org/Contact/Board.html




 
 

Kira Lukyanova


      Kira Lukyanova – Member of Parliament (State Duma), Russian Federation. Member, Committee on Economic Policy and Enterprise. Vice Chairman, Investment Committee. President of the charitable foundation Ray of Hope, which supports family, motherhood and childhood.
       
Member: Political Leaders for 9/11 Truth Association Statement: 

 "Scholars and professionals with various kinds of expertise---including  architects, engineers, firefighters, intelligence officers, lawyers,  medical professionals, military officers, philosophers, religious  leaders, physical scientists, and pilots---have spoken out about  radical discrepancies between the official account of the 9/11 attacks  and what they, as independent researchers, have learned. 

 They  have established beyond any reasonable doubt that the official account  of 9/11 is false and that, therefore, the official “investigations”  have really been cover-up operations. 

 Thus far, however, there  has been no response from political leaders in Washington or, for that  matter, in other capitals around the world. Our organization, Political  Leaders for 9/11 Truth, has been formed to help bring about such a  response. 

 We believe that the truth about 9/11 needs to be  exposed now---not in 50 years as a footnote in the history books---so  the policies that have been based on the Bush-Cheney administration’s  interpretation of the 9/11 attacks can be changed. 

 We are,  therefore, calling for a new, independent investigation of 9/11 that  takes account of evidence that has been documented by independent  researchers but thus far ignored by governments and the mainstream  media."




 
 

Victor Zvagelsky


      Victor Zvagelsky – Member of Parliament (State Duma), Russian Federation. Member, Committee on Economic Policy and Enterprise. Chairman Economic Relations Subcommittee.
      
Member: Political Leaders for 9/11 Truth Association Statement: 

 "Scholars and professionals with various kinds of expertise---including  architects, engineers, firefighters, intelligence officers, lawyers,  medical professionals, military officers, philosophers, religious  leaders, physical scientists, and pilots---have spoken out about  radical discrepancies between the official account of the 9/11 attacks  and what they, as independent researchers, have learned. 

 They  have established beyond any reasonable doubt that the official account  of 9/11 is false and that, therefore, the official “investigations”  have really been cover-up operations. 

 Thus far, however, there  has been no response from political leaders in Washington or, for that  matter, in other capitals around the world. Our organization, Political  Leaders for 9/11 Truth, has been formed to help bring about such a  response. 

 We believe that the truth about 9/11 needs to be  exposed now---not in 50 years as a footnote in the history books---so  the policies that have been based on the Bush-Cheney administration’s  interpretation of the 9/11 attacks can be changed. 

 We are,  therefore, calling for a new, independent investigation of 9/11 that  takes account of evidence that has been documented by independent  researchers but thus far ignored by governments and the mainstream  media."




 
 

Petr Hajek 


      Petr Hajek – 
Deputy Head of the Office of the President of the Czech Republic for Communication and Culture.  Senior Aide and former Spokesman for the Office of the President (Vaclav Klaus, President of the Czech Republic 2003 - present).

Article Klaus' s aide challenges Sept 11 attacks as Islamist-organised Czech News Agency 6/10/09:



		  "Prague - Petr Hajek, a close aide to Czech  President Vaclav Klaus and Klaus's former spokesman, views as realistic  the possibility that the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks on the  USA were organised by U.S. secret services, not Islamist radicals,  daily Mlada fronta Dnes (MfD) writes today. 
		  
		



          "There exists a real possibility that September 11 was really  organised by U.S. secret services," MfD quotes Hajek as saying in his  new book of essays.
		


Hajek does not give any evidence to support his assertion. ...
		



            Addressed by MfD, [Vaclav] Klaus [President of the Czech Republic] said Hajek's book is inventive and immensely  useful in certain aspects, such as his opinion about the role of the  media.
          
		


"Hajek says the layer of media manipulation that surrounds  September 11, Usama bin Laden and the bombing of Serbia (in 1999) is  huge. This makes everyone think about it. By saying this I don't at all  say that I share Hajek's opinion on how the events really occurred or  might have occurred," Klaus said." http://www.ctk.cz 



Webpage: http://www.hrad.cz/en




 
 

Gen. Hosni Mubarak 


      Gen. Hosni Mubarak – President of Egypt, 1981 - present.  Former Vice President, 1975 - 1981.  Former Commander of the Egyptian Air Force and Deputy Minister of War.
        
CNN Interview 9/15/01: Regarding 9/11 "... those who did that [piloted a 757 into the Pentagon] should have flown in the area a long time, for example. The Pentagon is          not very high, a pilot could come straight to the Pentagon like this to hit, he should          have flown a lot in this area to know the obstacles which could meet him when he is flying          very low with a big commercial plane to hit the Pentagon in a special place.                       

            Somebody has studied this very          well, someone has flown in this area very much.                       

              Q: Are you suggesting it was          an inside operation, I may ask, who do you think is behind this?                       
Mubarak: Frankly speaking I          don't want to jump to conclusions. ... let us wait          and see what is the result of the investigations, because something like this done in the          United States is not an easy thing ... I am speaking as a former pilot, I know that very well, I flew          very heavy planes, I flew fighters, I know that very well, this is not an easy thing, so I          think we should not jump to conclusions from now." http://www.presidency.

BBC Interview 9/19/01 - "When asked about the expected   repercussions of an assault on Afghanistan and the killing of Osama bin Laden,   Mubarak said he didn't believe bin Laden alone was responsible for the attacks   on the US. "American experts also believe the operation is beyond bin Laden." http://www.presidency.gov.eg

Article 10/25/01: "I find it hard to believe that people who were learning to fly in Florida could,   within a year and a half, fly large commercial airlines and hit with accuracy   the towers of the World Trade Center which would appear, to the pilot from the   air, the size of a pencil. Only a professional pilot could carry out this   mission, not someone who learned to fly for 18 months in Florida." http://www.sis.gov.eg  
Bio: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hosni_Mubarak 






Mohamed Hassanein Heikal

Mohamed Hassanein Heikal – Former Foreign Minister of Egypt.
        
Article 10/10/01: Regarding 9/11 "Bin Laden does not have the capabilities for an operation  of this magnitude. When I hear Bush talking about al-Qaida as if it was Nazi  Germany or the communist party of the Soviet Union,  I laugh because I know what is there. Bin Laden has been under surveillance for  years: every telephone call was monitored and al-Qaida has been penetrated by  American intelligence, Pakistani intelligence, Saudi intelligence, Egyptian  intelligence. They could not have kept secret an operation that required such a  degree of organisation and sophistication."  http://www.guardian.co.uk



 
 

President Asif Ali Zardari

      President Asif Ali Zardari – Elected President of  Pakistan 2008 - present, succeeding General Pervez Musharraf.  Widower of former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto (assassinated 12/27/07).
      Former Member of the National Assembly of Pakistan. Former Minister of the Environment.
      
Article Osama bin Laden was US operator destabilising Benazir govt 5/11/09: 

"Pakistani President Asif Ali Zardari has  alleged that elusive Al Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden was a US operator  who had tried to destabilise his late wife Benazir Bhutto's government  back in 1989.
                      

            In fact, as premier Bhutto had "warned America  about Osama bin Laden in 1989 with a call to then US president George H  Bush", Zardari said on NBC's Meet the Press programme Sunday. 
			                      

"She  rang senior Bush and asked of him: 'Are you destabilising my  government?' because he (apparently referring to bin Laden) paid the  then opposition $10 million to overthrow the first woman elected (prime  minister) in an Islamic country," Zardari added. 
                      

"So, we knew that he was your operator," said Zardari responding to a question about bin Laden's whereabouts. http://sify.com/news



Bio: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Asif_Ali_Zardari



 

General Pervez Musharraf

      General Pervez Musharraf – President of  Pakistan 2001 - 2008. Former  Chief of Staff of the Pakistan Army. Assumed power on October 12, 1999 after a coup d'état and assumed the title of President on June 20, 2001.
        
New Yorker Article 8/12/02: "Musharraf told me that he  was still unconvinced that bin Laden was the main figure in the  attacks. "I didn't think it possible that Osama sitting up there in the  mountains could do it," he said. "He was perhaps the sponsor, the  financier, the motivating force. But those who executed it were much  more modern. They knew the U.S., they knew aviation. I don't think he  has the intelligence or the minute planning. The planner was someone  else." http://www.newyorker.com/

Bio: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pervez_Musharraf




 
 

Lt. General Hamid Gul 


      Lt. General Hamid Gul  – Former Director General of Pakistan's intelligence agency Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) 1987 - 1989, instrumental in the anti-Soviet support of the Mujahadin in the Afghanistan War of 1979 - 1989.
      
Interviewed on the Alex Jones Show  9/28/01:  

 Alex Jones:  Uh, sir, continuing, on the CNN program, at least what they edited  you to say, you talked about 9/11, the evidence being that 9/11 was an inside job, and the attacks in Bombay, now Mumbai, of a few  weeks ago, that the evidence was, it was an inside job.  Can you go  over the evidence that you believe that these were False Flag events, sir, and why these False Flag events are being staged. 

 Hamid Gul:  Are you talking about 9/11? 

 Alex Jones:  Yes, sir. 

 Hamid Gul:  Well,  I have my own reasons, you know, Rod Nordland was the CNN reporter  here, I think he was based in Islamabad at that time, and he came to me  immediately after 9/11, and his version that, uh, that I put out, it  was given to the Newsweek, and unfortunately it was blocked, but it appeared on the internet, on the website of the Newsweek.  And you can see it, I think it is dated 16th or 17th of September, 2001.  [Note: the article is Prejudice In Pakistan: Why Is Islamabad Reluctant To Pressure Neighboring Afghanistan Into Turning Over Osama Bin Laden?, by Rod Nordland, dated 9/14/2001]. 

 And in that I had said the same thing, and I still maintain that that’s my position.  I have several reasons for it: 

 a.    that 9/11 took place on the American soil, not a single person has been caught inside America, even though for doing such a job I think a huge amount of  logistic support is required in the area where such operation is  carried out. 

 b.    Secondly,  the air traffic control, when they saw the four aircraft were changing  direction - going from east coast to west coast where they were headed,  they started traveling in different directions.  And it is quite  amazing that for a very long period of time the air traffic control did  not report this, nor did the US Air Force act in time.  If, er, one  were to calculate from the first flight, when it took off from Logan,  till the first aircraft, and the solitary aircraft that took off was an  F16 that took off from Langley, which is CIA headquarters, instead of  one of the operational bases.  So many of them are available in that  area.  And then a single aircraft never takes off, because we have been  told that whenever the aircraft scramble they scramble in twos.  And  the time that it took was enormous.  It took a hundred and  twelve minutes!  A hundred twelve minutes is a very long time in which  to react.  Was the US Air Force sleeping?  And if it was sleeping,  which heads will roll?
          
          

 c.    Second [NB: his third point]  it  was a huge intelligence failure, and no heads have been rolled, nobody  has been taken to task, not a single person has resigned for this. 

 d.    Thirdly,  the air traffic control should have been rehashed, they should have  been turned inside out, but nothing of the sort happened. 

 e.    And  finally, how come this is a coincidence that all transponders did not  work, and it is not possible — and the direction is changed and it is  not noticed? 

 f.    Secondly,  the US Air Force has the ability, because in the past whenever a plane  has been hijacked, the record is that within seven minutes the US  aircraft has been on the wing of the hijacked aircraft.  In this case  it  — uh, it did not happen.  ..." http://www.prisonplanet.com 



Bio: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hamid_Gul




 

General Mirza Aslam Beg


      General Mirza Aslam Beg – Former Chief                     of Staff of the Pakistani Army. 
        
Book 9/11 Synthetic Terror: Made in USA: "Many of us in this region believe that Osama or his al-Qaeda were not
            responsible for 11 September attacks in New York and Washington, yet the coalition led
            by United States is busy on ‘Afghan bashing,’ chasing objectives, which go much beyond
            Osama bin Laden. The information which is now coming up, goes to prove that
            involvement by the ‘rogue elements’ of the U.S. military and intelligence organization is
            getting more obvious. Osama bin Laden and al-Qaeda definitely do not have the knowhow
            and the capability to launch such operations involving such high precision
            coordination, based on information and expertise." (EIR, December 10, 2001) http://www.indymedia

Bio: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mirza_Aslam_Beg




 
 

Senator Khurshid Ahmed


      Senator Professor Khurshid Ahmed – Member, Senate of Pakistan 1985 - 1997, and 2003 to present.  Member, Standing Committee on Defence and Defence Production, Standing Committee on Finance, Revenue and Economic Affairs and Statistics, Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Kashmir Affairs and Northern Areas, Functional Committee on Human Rights, and the Finance Committee.  Former
      Federal Minister of Planning, Development and Statistics. Vice President, Jamaat-e-Islami Pakistan party.
                      

          
      Chairman, Institute of Policy Studies, Islamabad, Pakistan 1979 to present. Chairman, The Islamic Foundation Leicester, U.K.  1978 to present.
                      
          
      Member, Board of Trustees, International Islamic University, Islamabad, Pakistan 1980 to present.  Member, Foundation Council Royal Academy for Islamic Civilization, Amman, Jordan 1987 to present.  Member, Board of Trustees Islamic Centre, Zaria, Nigeria 1976 to present.  Vice President, Islamic Research Academy, Karachi and Lahore, Pakistan 1979 to present.  Rector, Markfield Institute of Higher Education, Leicester, UK, 2001 to present.  Advisor, King Abdul Aziz University, Jeddah, Saudi Arabia 1976 - 1983.  Former Professor of Economics, Karachi University.
	  
                      
          
      Recipient of Islamic Development Bank Award on  Distinguished Contribution to Islamic Economics 1989.  Recipient of King Faisal International Prize in Services to Islam 1990.  Recipient of 5th Annual Prize of American Finance House, La-Riba, USA, in recognition of his services in Islamic Economics and Finance, at City Council, Los Angeles  1998.
	  
                      
          
      Author or editor of more than 70 books, book chapters, and articles related to economics, government, and human rights.  For an extensive list, see here. 
      
Article The Nation 7/8/09: "We have to examine the 9/11 incident and a judiciary inquiry should be  conducted as America is responsible for it,” Senator Professor Khurshid  Ahmed said.  He said that America, Great Britain and Nato countries  started the war against terrorism and engulfed the whole world.  He said  America should change its foreign policy regarding terrorism, adding  war strategy of America, Britain and Nato countries had badly failed in  Iraq and Afghanistan."  http://www.nation.com.pk



Bio: http://www.senate.gov.pk




 
 

Muhammad Ibrahim Khan


Senator Professor Muhammad Ibrahim Khan, MA (Journalism), MA (Political Science), LLB  – Member, Senate Of Pakistan, 2006 - present.  Member, Standing Committee on Education  and Science and Technology; Standing Committee on Law, Justice and  Human Rights and Parliamentary Affairs. Vice President, Jamaat-e-Islami  Pakistan party. Former Professor of Journalism. 

Personal statement in support of the Political Leaders petition for a new 9/11 investigation: 

 "I want to sign this petition because an independent inquiry in 9/11 is a must for world peace." http://pl911truth.com



Member: Political Leaders for 9/11 Truth Association Statement: 

 "Scholars and professionals with various kinds of expertise---including  architects, engineers, firefighters, intelligence officers, lawyers,  medical professionals, military officers, philosophers, religious  leaders, physical scientists, and pilots---have spoken out about  radical discrepancies between the official account of the 9/11 attacks  and what they, as independent researchers, have learned. 

 They  have established beyond any reasonable doubt that the official account  of 9/11 is false and that, therefore, the official “investigations”  have really been cover-up operations. 

 Thus far, however, there  has been no response from political leaders in Washington or, for that  matter, in other capitals around the world. Our organization, Political  Leaders for 9/11 Truth, has been formed to help bring about such a  response. 

 We believe that the truth about 9/11 needs to be  exposed now---not in 50 years as a footnote in the history books---so  the policies that have been based on the Bush-Cheney administration’s  interpretation of the 9/11 attacks can be changed. 

 We are,  therefore, calling for a new, independent investigation of 9/11 that  takes account of evidence that has been documented by independent  researchers but thus far ignored by governments and the mainstream  media."




 
 

Hugo Chavez 


      Hugo Chavez – President of Venezuela.  Former Lieutenant Colonel in Venezuelan Army specializing in counter-insurgency.  17-year military career.  Leader of a failed coup in 1992.  Served 2 years in prison, then pardoned in 1994.  Elected President in 1998.
        
MSNBC Article 9/12/06: "Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez said Tuesday that it’s plausible that the U.S. government was involved in the Sept. 11 attacks. ... 

 "The hypothesis is not absurd ... that those  towers could have been dynamited," Chavez said in a speech to  supporters. "A building never collapses like that, unless it’s with an  implosion." 

 "The  hypothesis that is gaining strength ... is that it was the same U.S.  imperial power that planned and carried out this terrible terrorist  attack or act against its own people and against citizens of all over  the world," Chavez said. "Why? To justify the aggressions that  immediately were unleashed on Afghanistan, on Iraq."http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/13401534/



Bio: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hugo_Chavez




 
 

Nicolás Maduro


      Nicolás Maduro – Foreign Minister of Venezuela.  
      Former Speaker of the National Assembly, Venezuela.
      
Miami Herald  Article 11/9/06: 

 "The resolution, which appeared in the official government gazette in  mid-October, primarily criticized Washington's decision to build a wall  along the Mexican border to keep illegal immigrants out. 

 But in its fourth paragraph, it calls on the U.S. Congress to "demand that the government of President Bush explain the  self-inflicted attack on the World Trade Center and its victims, the  supposed aircraft that crashed into the Pentagon and the links between  the bin Laden family and the Bush family." 

 The resolution, drafted by the deputy chairman of the Foreign  Affairs Commission, Carlos Escarrá, was passed unanimously by the  167-member assembly, all of them Chávez supporters after an opposition  boycott of elections last December. 

 Both Chávez and Foreign Minister Nicolás Maduro have referred  several times in the past to suspicions that the 9/11 attacks were  planned by the Bush administration, and have called for an inquiry. 

 But this appears to be the first time that the term "self-inflicted attack" has been used without qualification. 

 Asked how the legislature had reached that conclusion, Escarrá said  that ''evidence and testimonies'' had emerged in the United States and  that ''for the rest of the world, there is no longer any question''  that 9/11 was not an al Qaeda attack." http://xianews.com/pagecache/myktivCor/63/



Bio: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nicol%C3%A1s_Maduro




 
 

Carlos Escarrá


      Carlos Escarrá – Member of the National Assembly of Venezuela.  Deputy Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Commission.
      
Miami Herald  Article 11/9/06: 

 "The resolution, which appeared in the official government gazette in  mid-October, primarily criticized Washington's decision to build a wall  along the Mexican border to keep illegal immigrants out. 

 But in its fourth paragraph, it calls on the U.S. Congress to "demand that the government of President Bush explain the  self-inflicted attack on the World Trade Center and its victims, the  supposed aircraft that crashed into the Pentagon and the links between  the bin Laden family and the Bush family." 

 The resolution, drafted by the deputy chairman of the Foreign  Affairs Commission, Carlos Escarrá, was passed unanimously by the  167-member assembly, all of them Chávez supporters after an opposition  boycott of elections last December. 

 Both Chávez and Foreign Minister Nicolás Maduro have referred  several times in the past to suspicions that the 9/11 attacks were  planned by the Bush administration, and have called for an inquiry. 

 But this appears to be the first time that the term "self-inflicted attack" has been used without qualification. 

 Asked how the legislature had reached that conclusion, Escarrá said  that ''evidence and testimonies'' had emerged in the United States and  that ''for the rest of the world, there is no longer any question''  that 9/11 was not an al Qaeda attack." http://xianews.com/pagecache/myktivCor/63/




 
 

Tun Dr. Mahathir bin Mohamad


 Tun Dr. Mahathir bin Mohamad  – Former Prime Minister of Malaysia 1981 - 2003.  Former Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Education, and Minister of Trade and Industry. Physician.
        Author of The Malay Dilemma (1970), The Challenge(1986), Regionalism, Globalism, and Spheres of Influence: ASEAN and the Challenge of Change into the 21st Century (1989), The Pacific Rim in the 21st century (1995), The Challenges of Turmoil (1998), The Way Forward (1998), A New Deal for Asia (1999), Islam & The Muslim Ummah (2001), Globalisation and the New Realities (2002), Reflections on Asia (2002), The Malaysian Currency Crisis: How and why it Happened(2003), Achieving True Globalization (2004), Islam, Knowledge, and Other Affairs (2006), Principles of Public Administration: An Introduction (2007).
        
Article 2/6/07: "Dr Mahathir said he had doubts that the collapse of the World Trade  Centre in New York was actually caused by terrorists crashing planes  into the towers. 
		  
		   
			
			He said the buildings had  collapsed in an orderly manner with such military precision that it all  seemed well planned. 

 'I  can believe that they (the United States) would kill 3,000 of their own  to have an excuse to kill 650,000 Iraqis. These are the kind of people  we are dealing with. Please don't think this is fiction.' " http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=6994



Bio: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mahathir_bin_Mohamad




 
 
 
 
Simeon A. Sahaydachny, JD
        No photo available


      Simeon A. Sahaydachny, JD, LLM  – Former Senior Legal Officer, United Nations Commission on  International Trade Law (UNCITRAL), Vienna, Austria, 1987 to 1996.  During this period, served as secretary of various inter-governmental  committees of UN General Assembly and authored working drafts of model  laws, international conventions and legal guides relating to  international commercial transactions adopted by Commission and  recommended by UN General Assembly for use. Senior Fellow and Member of the Faculty,  International Law Institute, Washington, D.C.
      
Signatory of Petition of Solidarity to the Attorney General of New York for a new independent grand jury investigation of 9/11 11/19/04: "We the undersigned:  a) think that there is ample evidence and probable cause to believe  that many grave and still unresolved crimes were committed by US  officials prior to, during and after the events of 9/11;  b) observe that most of these apparent crimes, including but not  limited to abetment of mass murder, criminal negligence, insider  trading, and obstruction of justice fall well within the jurisdiction of New York's top law enforcement officials ..." http://www.justicefor911.org



Signatory: Lawyers for 9/11 Truth petition requesting a reinvestigation of 9/11: 

 "Lawyers are trained to value the Constitution and the rule of law. 

 We  are trained to examine evidence and to spot cover-ups or  inconsistencies in the evidence and bias in witnesses or  decision-makers. 

 Attorneys are also experts in weighing conflicting evidence. 

 For all of the above reasons, many  lawyers have concluded that the 9/11 Commission and other government  examinations were wholly inadequate, and did not follow proper rules of  evidence or procedure. 

 We are demanding an end to the 9/11  cover-up, and a full investigation by unbiased people with subpoena  power ... and the courage to demand that the Constitution and rule of  law are followed, and all guilty persons held accountable for their  actions. 

 The following legal scholars,  judges and attorneys demand an end to the 9/11 cover-up, a new, full  and unbiased investigation, and punishment of all guilty parties." http://www.l911t.com 

Member:  Scholars for 9/11 Truth and Justice   Association Statement: "Scholars for 9/11 Truth and Justice is a non-partisan organization consisting  of independent researchers and activists engaged  in uncovering the true nature of the September 11, 2001 attacks."




9/11 COMMISSIONERS AND STAFF MEMBERS WHO CONTINUE TO SUPPORT THE COMMISSION REPORT



 
 

Thomas H. Kean 


      Thomas H. Kean, Chairman, 9/11 Commission – Former Governor of New Jersey 1982 - 1990.  Also served for 10 years in the  New Jersey Assembly.  Currently President of Drew University. 
        
Stonewalled by the CIA   by Thomas Kean and Lee Hamilton New York Times article 1/2/08:
"More than five years ago, Congress and President Bush created the  9/11 commission. The goal was to provide the American people with the  fullest possible account of the “facts and circumstances relating to  the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001” — and to offer recommendations  to prevent future attacks. Soon after its creation, the president’s  chief of staff directed all executive branch agencies to cooperate with  the commission.
	

The commission’s mandate was sweeping and it  explicitly included the intelligence agencies. But the recent  revelations that the C.I.A. destroyed videotaped interrogations of  Qaeda operatives leads us to conclude that the agency failed to respond  to our lawful requests for information about the 9/11 plot. Those who  knew about those videotapes — and did not tell us about them —  obstructed our investigation.	
There could have been absolutely no  doubt in the mind of anyone at the C.I.A. — or the White House — of the  commission’s interest in any and all information related to Qaeda  detainees involved in the 9/11 plot. Yet no one in the administration  ever told the commission of the existence of videotapes of detainee  interrogations. ...
	
    As a legal matter, it is not up to us to examine the C.I.A.’s failure  to disclose the existence of these tapes. That is for others. What we  do know is that government officials decided not to inform a lawfully  constituted body, created by Congress and the president, to investigate  one the greatest tragedies to confront this country. We call that  obstruction."		http://www.nytimes.com/2008/01/02

Without Precedent, a book about the 9/11 Commission authored by Chairman Thomas Kean and Vice-Chairman Lee Hamilton 8/4/06: "Fog of war could explain why some people were confused on the day of  9/11, but it could not explain why all of the after-action reports,  accident investigations and public testimony by FAA and NORAD officials  advanced an account of 9/11 that was untrue." http://www.washingtonpost.com

Washington Post Article 8/2/06 - "Some staff members  and commissioners of the Sept. 11 panel concluded that the Pentagon's initial  story of how it reacted to the 2001 terrorist attacks may have been part of a  deliberate effort to mislead the commission and the public  rather than a reflection of the fog of  events on that day, according to sources involved in the debate. ...                       

           "We, to this day, don't know why NORAD [the North  American Aerospace Command] told us what they told us," said Thomas H.  Kean, the former New Jersey Republican governor who led the commission.  "It was just so far from the truth. ... It's one of those loose ends  that never got tied." http://www.washington

New York Times  article 12/8/07:  "The Central Intelligence Agency faced the threat of  obstruction-of-justice investigations on Friday from both the Justice  Department and congressional committees over the destruction of  videotapes of interrogations of Qaeda operatives. ...
                      

            Meanwhile, the former chairmen of the Sept. 11 commission, who said  the CIA assured them repeatedly during their inquiry that no original  material existed from its interrogations of Qaeda figures, said they  were furious to learn about the tapes.
                      
The CIA indicated that the Sept. 11 commission never specifically asked for any tape recordings of prisoner interrogations.
                      
But  in separate interviews on Friday, the co-chairmen, Thomas Kean and Lee  Hamilton, said they had made clear in hours of negotiations and  discussions with the CIA, as well as in written requests, that they  wanted all material connected to the interrogations of Qaeda operatives  in the agency's custody in order to get a complete understanding of the  events leading up to the Sept. 11 attacks for their 2004 report.
                      
The  commission ended up getting summaries of interrogation reports and was  able to forward questions of its own for CIA officers to ask the  prisoners.
                      
"The CIA certainly knew of our interest in getting  all the information we could on the detainees, and they never indicated  to us there were any videotapes," Hamilton said. "Did they obstruct our  inquiry? The answer is clearly yes. Whether that amounts to a crime,  others will have to judge."
                      

Kean said, "I'm upset that they didn't tell us the truth." http://www.nytimes.com

The Raw Story article 12/24/07: "There is 'no question' the CIA was aware that its now-destroyed  videotapes depicting severe interrogations were among evidence being  sought by 9/11 Commission investigators, says the commission's chairman  Thomas Kean.
                      
          
                        Kean, a former Republican governor of New Jersey, told CNN's John  Roberts that the 9/11 Commission had actively sought all of the spy  agency's information about detainees with suspected links to the Sept.  11 terror attacks.
						
                      

          
                        "I'm not a lawyer and I'm not sure if they broke the law or not but  what they did do, I think, is try to impede our investigation," said  Kean. "Because we asked for ... anything to do with those detainees,  because they were the ones who knew most about the plot of 9/11 and  that was our mandate."
						
                      
          
                      He sharply dismissed the agency's continued insistence that the tapes were not specifically requested by the commission.
					  
                      

          
                      "They can parse their words all they want," he continued. "We asked  for every single thing that they had, and then my vice chairman, Lee  Hamilton, looked the director of the CIA in the face and said, 'look,  even if we haven't asked for something, if it's pertinent to our  investigation, make it available to us.' And our staff asked again and  again of their staff and the tapes were not given to us. So there was  no question. 
                      
Asked about comments from former acting CIA director John  McLaughlin, who previously told CNN that the tapes did not include any  information relevant to the 9/11 Commission's inquiry, Kean was  skeptical. 
                      


                      "It's hard to tell, because the tapes have been destroyed," he said,  "But we should have seen them and made that determination ourselves. I  mean no, question that we again and again and again asked for  everything, and we needed it, and we weren't given it, and so the only  conclusion we can draw is it was withheld from us, and that can only be  seen to me as an attempt to impede our investigation."    http://rawstory.com

Editor's note: Despite the many public statements by  9/11 Commissioners and staff members acknowledging they were repeatedly lied to, not  a single person has ever been charged, tried, or even reprimanded for lying to  the 9/11 Commission. 

Bio: http://www.9-11commission.gov/about/bio_kean.htm




 
 

Lee Hamilton 


      Lee Hamilton, Vice Chairman, 9/11 Commission – Former 17-term Congressman from Indiana.  Former Chairman of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence.  Currently President and Director of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars and serves as a member of the President's Homeland Security Advisory Council.
        
Stonewalled by the CIA by Thomas Kean and Lee Hamilton New York Times article 1/2/08: "More than five years ago, Congress and President Bush created the  9/11 commission. The goal was to provide the American people with the  fullest possible account of the “facts and circumstances relating to  the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001” — and to offer recommendations  to prevent future attacks. Soon after its creation, the president’s  chief of staff directed all executive branch agencies to cooperate with  the commission. 

 The commission’s mandate was sweeping and it  explicitly included the intelligence agencies. But the recent  revelations that the C.I.A. destroyed videotaped interrogations of  Qaeda operatives leads us to conclude that the agency failed to respond  to our lawful requests for information about the 9/11 plot. Those who  knew about those videotapes — and did not tell us about them —  obstructed our investigation. 

 There could have been absolutely no  doubt in the mind of anyone at the C.I.A. — or the White House — of the  commission’s interest in any and all information related to Qaeda  detainees involved in the 9/11 plot. Yet no one in the administration  ever told the commission of the existence of videotapes of detainee  interrogations. ... 

 As a legal matter, it is not up to us to examine the C.I.A.’s failure  to disclose the existence of these tapes. That is for others. What we  do know is that government officials decided not to inform a lawfully  constituted body, created by Congress and the president, to investigate  one the greatest tragedies to confront this country. We call that  obstruction." http://www.nytimes.com/2008/01/02


 International Herald Tribune article 12/8/07:  "The Central Intelligence Agency faced the threat of  obstruction-of-justice investigations on Friday from both the Justice  Department and congressional committees over the destruction of  videotapes of interrogations of Qaeda operatives. ... 

 Meanwhile, the former chairmen of the Sept. 11 commission, who said  the CIA assured them repeatedly during their inquiry that no original  material existed from its interrogations of Qaeda figures, said they  were furious to learn about the tapes. 

 The CIA indicated that the Sept. 11 commission never specifically asked for any tape recordings of prisoner interrogations. 

 But  in separate interviews on Friday, the co-chairmen, Thomas Kean and Lee  Hamilton, said they had made clear in hours of negotiations and  discussions with the CIA, as well as in written requests, that they  wanted all material connected to the interrogations of Qaeda operatives  in the agency's custody in order to get a complete understanding of the  events leading up to the Sept. 11 attacks for their 2004 report. 

 The  commission ended up getting summaries of interrogation reports and was  able to forward questions of its own for CIA officers to ask the  prisoners. 

 "The CIA certainly knew of our interest in getting  all the information we could on the detainees, and they never indicated  to us there were any videotapes," Hamilton said. "Did they obstruct our  inquiry? The answer is clearly yes. Whether that amounts to a crime,  others will have to judge." 

 Kean said, "I'm upset that they didn't tell us the truth." 



CBC video interview transcript regarding Without Precedent a book about the 9/11 Commission authored by Chairman Thomas Kean and Vice-Chairman Lee Hamilton 8/21/06:  
Lee Hamilton: I don’t believe for a minute                       that we got everything right. We wrote a first draft of history. ... People will be investigating                       9/11 for the next hundred years in this country, and they’re                       going to find out some things that we missed here.                      
Evan Solomon: The first chapter of the                       book is 'the Commission was set up to fail.' ... Why do you think                       you were set up to fail?                      
Hamilton: Well, for a number of reasons: ... we got started late; we had a very                       short time frame - indeed, we had to get it extended; we did                       not have enough money - 3 million dollars to conduct an extensive                       investigation. We needed more, we got more, but it took us                       a while to get it. ...                       

            We had a lot of people                       strongly opposed to what we did. We had a lot of trouble getting                       access to documents and to people. ... So there were all kinds of reasons we thought                       we were set up to fail. ...
Solomon: I guess the question is, you know,                       if forty odd million dollars were spent investigating President                       Bill Clinton’s sexual infidelities, why did the American                       people and the world have to wait 441 days for a commission                       [to begin its work] that was originally budgeted for 3 million dollars and given                       barely a year [to complete the investigation]?                       
Hamilton: I think basically it’s                       because they were afraid we were going to hang somebody, that                       we would point the finger, right in the middle of a presidential                       campaign - 'Mr. Bush, this was your fault' ..." http://www.cbc.ca/sunday/911hamilton.html 

Editor's note: Ultimately, the budget for the 9/11 Commission was increased to $12 million and they were given 18 months to complete the investigation and issue their report.  In comparison, $20 million was spent on the independent Columbia Accident Investigation Board's investigation of the 2003 Columbia space shuttle disaster, in which 7 astronauts were killed.  This amount does not include an estimated $300 million spent on debris recovery of the space shuttle, nor tens of millions spent by NASA in support of the investigation. http://www.ksc.nasa.gov

Bio: http://www.9-11commission.gov




 
 

 Timothy J. Roemer 


      Timothy J. Roemer, PhD, 9/11  Commissioner – Former 6-term Congressman from Indiana (1991 - 2003).  Former member of the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence.  Currently President of the Center for National Policy.
        
CNN Article 8/2/06 : "A member of the 9/11 commission said  Wednesday that panel members so distrusted testimony from Pentagon  officials that they referred their concerns to the Pentagon's inspector  general. ... "We were extremely frustrated with the false  statements we were getting," Roemer told CNN. "We were not sure of the  intent, whether it was to deceive the commission or merely part of the  fumbling bureaucracy." http://www.cnn.com

New York Times Article 10/1/06: Regarding recent revelations of a July 10, 2001 meeting between Condoleezza Rice, George Tenet, and Cofer Black - "In interviews Saturday and Sunday, commission members said they were  never told about the meeting despite hours of public and private  questioning with Rice, Tenet and Black, much of it focused specifically  on how the White House had dealt with terrorist threats in the summer  of 2001.                       


           "None of this was shared with us in hours of private interviews,  including interviews under oath; nor do we have any paper on this,"  said Timothy Roemer, a Democratic member of the commission and a former  congressman from Indiana. "I'm deeply disturbed by this. I'm furious." http://www.nytimes.com/2006/10/01

Editor's note: Despite the many public statements by  9/11 Commissioners and staff members acknowledging they were repeatedly lied to, not  a single person has ever been charged, tried, or even reprimanded for lying to  the 9/11 Commission. 

Bio: http://www.9-11commission.gov/about/bio_roemer




 
 

Jamie S. Gorelick


      Jamie S. Gorelick, 9/11 Commissioner – Former Deputy Attorney General of the United States 1994 - 1997.  Former General Counsel of the Defense Department 1993 - 1994.  Co-chaired, with Senator Sam Nunn, the Advisory Committee of the President's Commission on Critical Infrastructure Protection.  Also served on the CIA's National Security Advisory Panel.  Vice chair of Fannie Mae 1997 - 2003.  Currently a partner at the law firm, WilmerHale.  Also serves on the Board of Directors of Schlumberger and United Technologies Corporation and is a member of the Harvard College Board of Overseers.
        
Washington Post Article 9/30/06: Regarding recent revelations of a July 10, 2001 meeting between Condoleezza Rice, George Tenet, and Cofer Black - "Jamie S. Gorelick, a member of the Sept. 11 commission, said she  checked with commission staff members who told her investigators were  never told about a July 10 meeting. "We didn't know about the meeting  itself," she said. "I can assure you it would have been in our report  if we had known to ask about it."  White House and State Department officials yesterday confirmed that the July 10 meeting took place..." http://www.washingtonpost.com

Editor's note: Despite the many public statements by  9/11 Commissioners and staff members acknowledging they were repeatedly lied to, not  a single person has ever been charged, tried, or even reprimanded for lying to  the 9/11 Commission. 

Bio: http://www.9-11commission.gov/about/bio_gorelick.htm




 
 

John F. Lehman, Jr., PhD


      John F. Lehman, Jr., PhD – 9/11 Commissioner.  Former Secretary of the Navy 1981 - 1987.  Former staff member to Henry Kissinger on the National Security Council.  Member, Project for the New American Century (PNAC).
        
Article Washington Post 8/2/06:  "Some staff members  and commissioners of the Sept. 11 panel concluded that the Pentagon's initial  story of how it reacted to the 2001 terrorist attacks may have been part of a  deliberate effort to mislead the commission and the public  rather than a reflection of the fog of  events on that day, according to sources involved in the debate. ...                       
"My view of that was that whether it was  willful or just the fog of stupid bureaucracy, I don't know," Lehman said.  "But in the order of magnitude of things, going after bureaucrats because  they misled the commission didn't seem to make sense to me." http://www.washingtonpost.com



Editor's note: Despite the many public statements by  9/11 Commissioners and staff members acknowledging they were repeatedly lied to, not  a single person has ever been charged, tried, or even reprimanded for lying to  the 9/11 Commission. 



Bio: http://www.9-11commission.gov/about/bio_lehman.htm




 
 

Daniel Marcus 


      Daniel Marcus  – General Counsel of the 9-11 Commission.  Former Partner  in the Washington law firm of Wilmer, Cutler & Pickering.  Deputy General Counsel of the  Department of Health, Education and Welfare, and General Counsel of the  Department of Agriculture under President Jimmy Carter.  Senior Counsel in the White House Counsel's office under President William Clinton.  From 1999 to 2001  he held several senior positions at the Department of Justice,  including Associate Attorney General.  Former Visiting  Professor at Georgetown University Law Center.  Currently Fellow in Law and Government, Washington College of Law at American University.
        
Article New York Times 12/6/07: "The Central Intelligence Agency in 2005 destroyed at least two videotapes documenting the interrogation of two Al Qaeda operatives in the agency’s custody, a step it took in the midst of  Congressional and legal scrutiny about the C.I.A’s secret detention  program, according to current and former government officials. ... 

 Staff members of the Sept. 11 commission, which completed its work  in 2004, expressed surprise when they were told that interrogation  videotapes existed until 2005. 

 “The commission did formally  request material of this kind from all relevant agencies, and the  commission was assured that we had received all the material responsive  to our request,” said Philip D. Zelikow, who served as executive director of the Sept. 11 commission and later as a senior counselor to Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice. 

 “No  tapes were acknowledged or turned over, nor was the commission provided  with any transcript prepared from recordings,” he said. 

 Daniel  Marcus, a law professor at American University who served as general  counsel for the Sept. 11 commission and was involved in the discussions  about interviews with Al Qaeda leaders, said he had heard nothing about  any tapes being destroyed. 

 If tapes were destroyed, he said,  “it’s a big deal, it’s a very big deal,” because it could amount to  obstruction of justice to withhold evidence being sought in criminal or  fact-finding investigations." http://www.nytimes.com/2007/12/06



Bio: http://www.wcl.american.edu/faculty/marcus/




 
 

 John J. Farmer, Jr. 


      John J. Farmer, Jr., Senior Counsel, 9/11 Commission – Former Attorney General of the State of New    Jersey.  Former Chief  Counsel to former New Jersey Governor Christine Todd Whitman.  Former Commissioner of the State  Commission of Investigations. Former Assistant U.S. Attorney for the District of New Jersey.
        
Washington  Post Article 8/2/06 - "Some staff members and commissioners of the Sept. 11 panel concluded  that the Pentagon's initial story of how it reacted to the 2001  terrorist attacks may have been part of a deliberate effort to mislead  the commission and the public rather than a reflection of the fog of  events on that day, according to sources involved in the debate. ...                       

          "I was shocked at how different the truth was from the way it was  described," John Farmer, a former New Jersey attorney general who led  the staff inquiry into events on Sept. 11, said in a recent interview.  "The tapes told a radically different story from what had been told to  us and the public for two years. ... This is not spin. This is not  true." http://www.washingtonpost

Editor's note: Despite the many public statements by  9/11 Commissioners and staff members acknowledging they were repeatedly lied to, not  a single person has ever been charged, tried, or even reprimanded for lying to  the 9/11 Commission. 

Bio: http://nj.gov/oag/oag/ag_1999-2002_farmer_bio.htm




 
 

 Peter Rundlet 


      Peter Rundlet, Counsel for the 9/11 Commission – Former Associate  Counsel to President Clinton.  Former White House Fellow, serving in the Office of the Chief of Staff to President Clinton.  Former Vice President for National Security and International Affairs, Center for American Progress. 
        Currently Director of Policy and Government Relations for Humanity United, an  independent grantmaking organization committed to building a world  where modern-day slavery and mass atrocities are no longer possible.
        
Essay 9/30/06: "A mixture of shock, anger, and sadness overcame me when I read about revelations in Bob Woodward’s new book about a special surprise visit that George Tenet and his  counterterrorism chief Cofer Black made to Condi Rice, also on July 10,  2001 ...                       

            If true, it is shocking that the administration failed to heed such an  overwhelming alert from the two officials in the best position to know. Many, many questions need to be asked and answered about this  revelation — questions that the 9/11 Commission would have asked, had  the Commission been told about this significant meeting. Suspiciously,  the Commissioners and the staff investigating the administration’s  actions prior to 9/11 were never informed of the meeting.                       
              The Commission interviewed Condoleezza Rice privately and during  public testimony; it interviewed George Tenet three times privately and  during public testimony; and Cofer Black was also interviewed privately  and publicly. All of them were obligated to tell the truth. Apparently,  none of them described this meeting, the purpose of which clearly was  central to the Commission’s investigation. Moreover, document requests  to both the White House and to the CIA should have revealed the fact  that this meeting took place. Now, more than two years after the  release of the Commission’s report, we learn of this meeting from Bob  Woodward.                       
            Was it covered up?  It is hard to come to a different conclusion. ... At a minimum, the withholding of information about this meeting  is an outrage. Very possibly, someone committed a crime. And worst of  all, they failed to stop the plot." http://think

Editor's note: Despite the many public statements by  9/11 Commissioners and staff members acknowledging they were repeatedly lied to, not  a single person has ever been charged, tried, or even reprimanded for lying to  the 9/11 Commission. 

Bio: http://www.changemakers.net







 
A PERSONAL NOTE ABOUT THIS WEBSITE
I believed the official explanation of 9/11 for four and one-half years. During that time, I remember becoming angry at news stories about people who challenged that explanation.  However, in the Spring of 2006, I saw the documentary, Loose Change, on the Internet. Although not an entirely objective documentary, it raised many serious and disturbing questions about  the events of 9/11  that I had previously simply accepted without much critical thought. 
And so I began a several month period of researching the events of 9/11. I found a great deal of material challenging the 9/11 Commission Report on websites like 911truth.org, physics911.net, Scholars for 9/11 Truth  and many others. I attended a lecture by David Ray Griffin. I learned much about what has become known as the 9/11 Truth Movement.
Much of the information and most of the rather limited media coverage about the 9/11 Truth Movement focuses on a handful of college professors, such as: David Ray Griffin, Steven Jones, James Fetzer, Kevin Barrett, William Woodward, and A.K. Dewdney. In August 2006, I began searching for statements about 9/11 by senior U.S. military officers, intelligence services and law enforcement veterans, and government officials. Because of their experience in intelligence gathering, espionage, terrorism, and covert military operations, I felt their opinions about 9/11 would be valuable.   I was surprised by the amount of their criticism of the official account of 9/11 that I found scattered around the Internet. I had learned of virtually none of this criticism through newspapers, television, or radio news sources.
I feel this criticism by experienced professionals is extremely important and that it has been seriously under-reported. This website was launched in September 2006 in an effort to provide an easily accessible reference collection of their public statements.
I continued my research and found that many more than just a handful  of professors had  publicly questioned the official account of 9/11.  However most had received negligible media coverage.  In January 2007, a new section of the website was launched that featured statements by over 100 professors. 
Since then, the following sections have been added to the website: Professors; Engineers and Architects; Pilots and Aviation and Aerospace Professionals; 9/11 Survivors and Family Members; Artists, Entertainers, and Media Professionals; and, most recently, in 2010, Medical Professionals. I strongly desire to increase this collection of statements by responsible individuals who  question the official account of 9/11.  If you are a member of one of these groups, or if you are aware of any similar statements made by members of these groups, I would greatly appreciate knowing about them. Please contact me at   alan.miller (at) PatriotsQuestion911 (dot) com.  Additionally, if you find any errors in this material, please let me know. 
 I don't claim to know what really happened on 9/11.  I cannot examine the facts  of the matter first hand.  And I don't have the experience to know  what's possible and what is unlikely regarding terrorist activities or military  operations.  For that analysis, I need to rely on experts. Many of the government employees have spent large portions of their careers  studying espionage, terrorism, and military operations throughout the world and have personally planned and carried out United States' military and intelligence activities.    Nor am I an architect, structural engineer, or commercial or military pilot. Their expressions of concern about the official account of 9/11 are also extremely important. I applaud the integrity and courage of all of the individuals listed on the website for publicly supporting the search for the  truth about 9/11 in spite of opposition by our government and lack of support in the mainstream news media.


      My objective, at this point, is to have our government launch a new,  extremely thorough, independent, and totally impartial re-examination of the terrible acts of 9/11 and  the events leading up to them. In my opinion, and in the opinion of the above listed experienced individuals, the current 9/11  Commission Report is seriously inadequate in explaining what really happened.
I also want to acknowledge that virtually none of the information on this website is the result of any original investigation on my part. I have merely researched and compiled public information available on the Internet. I want to thank those in the 9/11 Truth Movement for their years of effort since 9/11 in conducting a great deal of research and for keeping the Movement alive in the face of both ridicule and indifference.

              DEMAND A NEW 9/11 INVESTIGATION! 
9/11 is the most important event in American history since December 7, 1941,   when Japanese forces attacked Pearl Harbor. The magnitude of the impact of 9/11   on America and the rest of the world cannot be overstated. The terrible acts of   9/11 and the events leading up to them deserve a thorough, independent and   unimpeachable investigation.  And if some rogue element within the U.S.   government is responsible for the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center   and the Pentagon on 9/11, as several of these individuals allege, it is critical   that that be disclosed and forcefully dealt with.
For the sake of those who died on 9/11, their families, the American  people, and for the  sake of peace in the world, please continue to seek the truth about  9/11.  Demand a thorough and impartial reinvestigation of 9/11.



Write your elected representatives in Congress. http://www.congress.org/congressorg/directory/congdir.tt
 



Write your local television stations, radio stations and newspapers. http://www.congress.org/congressorg/dbq/media




Write to national tv and radio networks, newspapers, and magazines. http://www.fair.org/index.php?page=111



If you are a member of any of the categories of people shown on this website and have  concerns about the 9/11 Commission Report and would like  your comment  added to the site, please contact me.   alan.miller (at) PatriotsQuestion911 (dot) com
 Fair Use Notice: This website contains copyrighted material, the use of which has not  always  been specifically authorized by the copyright owner.  This material is  being made available in an effort to advance understanding of issues  and facts related to and in some cases contradictory to the official  account of the events of 9/11.  This constitutes a "fair use" of such copyrighted  material as provided  for in section 107 of the US Copyright Law.  In accordance with Title  17  U.S.C. Section 107, the material on this site is distributed   to those who have expressed a prior interest in receiving the  information for research and educational purposes.  If you wish to use  copyrighted material from this site for purposes of your own that go  beyond  "fair use", you must obtain permission from the original copyright  owner.
Lastly, I'd like to share with you some pertinent quotes from Teddy Roosevelt and Mark Twain.

"Patriotism means     to stand by the country. It does not mean to stand by the president or any other     public official save exactly to the degree in which he himself stands by the     country. It is patriotic to support him insofar as he efficiently serves the     country. It is unpatriotic not to oppose him to the exact extent that by inefficiency     or otherwise he fails in his duty to stand by the country."  –  Teddy Roosevelt

"To announce                       that there must be no criticism of the President, or that                       we are to stand by the President, right or wrong, is not only                       unpatriotic and servile, but is morally treasonable to the                       American public."  –  Teddy Roosevelt
 
"Patriotism is supporting your country all the time, and your government when it deserves it."   –  Mark Twain

"In the beginning of a change the patriot is a scarce man, and brave,           and hated and scorned. When his cause succeeds, the timid join him, for           then it costs nothing to be a patriot."  –  Mark Twain 

          Sincerely, Alan Miller 
      Email: alan.miller (at) PatriotsQuestion911 (dot) com 





CREDIBLE CRITICS OF THE OFFICIAL ACCOUNT OF 9/11  


May  18, 2009: 41 U.S. Counter-Terrorism and Intelligence Agency Veterans Challenge the Official Account of 9/11 – Official Account of 9/11: “Terribly Flawed,” “Laced with Contradictions,” “a Joke,” “a Cover-up” 

English PDF              
English HTML     
Danish PDF
French PDF                
German PDF      
Greek PDF
Norwegian PDF         
Polish PDF          
Swedish PDF

Summary: More than 40 U.S. Counter-Terrorism and Intelligence Agency veterans have severely criticized the official account of 9/11 and most have called for a new investigation. Veterans from the U.S. State Department, the National Security Agency, the Central Intelligence Agency, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Federal 
          Aviation Administration, U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the branches of the U.S. 
          Military are quoted.



June 17, 2009: 29 Structural & Civil Engineers Cite Evidence for  Controlled Explosive Demolition in Collapses of All 3 WTC High-Rises on 9/11 – more than 1,000 Architects and Engineers have joined call for new investigation, faulting official collapse reports

PDF at Architects and Engineers for 9/11 Truth
        


Feb. 24, 2009: Respected Medical Professionals Launch New 9/11 Truth Group – Announces Online Petition Calling for New Investigation 
MS Word      Article on OpEdNews

Summary: In  response to growing concerns about omissions, distortions, and contradictions  in the official account of 9/11, an alliance of doctors, dentists, nurses, therapists,  researchers, and other medical professionals has announced the formation of a  new 9/11 Truth group.  Calling themselves  Medical Professionals for 9/11 Truth, the group has launched an online petition  calling for a new investigation into the events of 9/11, which can be seen on  the group’s website at http://MP911Truth.org



Jan. 14, 2008: Twenty-five U.S. Military Officers Challenge Official Account of 9/11 – Official Account of 9/11 “Impossible”, “A Bunch of Hogwash”, “Total B.S.”,  “Ludicrous”, “A Well-Organized Cover-up”, “A White-Washed Farce”
PDF Version      Article on OpEdNews

Summary: Twenty-five U.S. military officers condemn the official account of 9/11.  The article details severe criticism of the official account of 9/11 by: General Albert Stubblebine, former commander of U.S. Army Intelligence, Col. Ronald D. Ray, former Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense,  Major John M. Newman, PhD, former Executive Assistant to the Director of the National Security Agency,  Lt. Col. Karen Kwiatkowski, PhD,  former staff member of the Director of the National Security Agency, Lt. Col. Robert Bowman, PhD, Director  of Advanced Space Programs Development under Presidents Gerald Ford and Jimmy  Carter, and 20 other officers.



Jan. 5, 2008:  Eight U.S. State Department Veterans Challenge the Official Account of 9/11
Official Account of 9/11 "Flawed", "Absurd", "Totally Inadequate", "a Cover-up"  
PDF Version    Article on OpEdNews

Summary: Eight U.S. State Department veterans denounce the official account of 9/11 as "flawed", "absurd", "totally inadequate", "a cover-up", "a failure" filled with "numerous  inconsistencies" and call for a new 9/11 investigation.
These State Department veterans served in the Federal government for decades.  They were responsible for formulating and implementing U.S. foreign policy.  Their statements demonstrate that the desire for a new,  thorough, and independent investigation of 9/11 is not a matter of  partisan politics, nor the demand of irresponsible, deranged, or  disloyal Americans.  It is instead a matter of the utmost importance  for America’s security and the future of the entire world.  We must not now ignore their  stunning condemnation of the official  account  of 9/11.



Dec. 13, 2007:  Seven Senior Federal Engineers and Scientists Call for New 9/11 Investigation – Official Account of 9/11 "Impossible", "Hogwash", "Fatally Flawed"
PDF Version      Article on OpEdNews

Summary: Seven senior Federal engineers and scientists call for a new 9/11 investigation and denounce the official account of 9/11 as: "impossible",  "hogwash", "fatally flawed",  "false", "does not match the available facts", and "politically driven".
These senior engineers and scientists served in the Federal government for decades.  Their primary functions were the responsible application of technology and the pursuit of scientific truth.  Their statements demonstrate that the desire for a new,  thorough, and independent investigation of 9/11 is not a matter of  partisan politics, nor the demand of irresponsible, deranged, or  disloyal Americans.  It is instead a matter of the utmost importance  for America’s security and the future of the entire world.  We must not now ignore their  stunning condemnation of the official  account  of 9/11.



Dec. 4, 2007:  Eight Senior Republican Appointees Challenge Official Account of 9/11
Official Account of 9/11 "Not Possible",      "a Whitewash", "False"
PDF Version      Article on OpEdNews 

Summary: Eight senior Republican appointees denounce the official account of 9/11 as: "an inside job",  "not possible ", "operationally infeasible ",  "false", "a whitewash ", and "does not conform to the facts".
These individuals were carefully selected and appointed to important positions in Republican administrations from President Richard Nixon to current President George W. Bush.  Their statements demonstrate that the desire for a new,  thorough, and independent investigation of 9/11 is not a matter of  partisan politics, nor the demand of irresponsible, deranged, or  disloyal Americans.  It is instead a matter of the utmost importance  for America’s security and the future of the entire world.  We must not now ignore their  stunning condemnation of the official  account  of 9/11.



Sep. 23, 2007:  Seven CIA Veterans Challenge 9/11  Commission  Report
Official Account of 9/11 a "Joke" and a  "Cover-up" 
PDF Version      Article on OpEdNews 

Summary: Seven CIA veterans denounce the official account of 9/11 as: "a joke", "a coverup",  "a monstrous series of lies", "a pretext for war", "not a serious piece  of analysis", riddled with "serious shortcomings," "omissions," and  "major flaws."
These individuals played significant roles in our national security  apparatus from the  1960's through the 1990's.  In particular, Raymond McGovern, William  Christison, and Melvin Goodman, served at the highest levels of  the CIA and each for more than 25 years.  We relied on them for decades to collect information  and  provide analysis that were critically important to America's national security, during a time that America faced  far  more real and much more serious external threats than anything we face today.  We must not now ignore their  stunning condemnation of the official  account  of 9/11.



Sep. 5, 2007:  Former  Congressional Office of Technology Assessment Senior Staff Member Calls  for New Investigation of 9/11
PDF Version      Article on OpEdNews

Summary: Joel S. Hirschhorn, Ph.D.,  who served for 12 years as a Senior Staff Member of the Congressional  Office of Technology Assessment and later as Director of  Environment, Energy and Natural Resources for the National  Governors Association, called for a new investigation of 9/11,  saying "First, let the technical truth emerge. Then, if necessary, cope  with the inevitable political, conspiracy and other questions."



Sep. 5, 2007:  U.S.  Navy 'Top Gun' Pilot Questions 9/11
PDF Version      Article on OpEdNews

Summary: Commander Ralph Kolstad, U.S. Navy  ‘Top Gun’ pilot, questioned the official account of 9/11 and  called for a new investigation. "When one starts using his own mind,  and not what one was told, there is very little to believe in the  official story."



Aug. 27, 2007:  National  Academy of Sciences Member Calls for New 9/11 Investigation
Official Explanation a "Fraud"
PDF Version      Article on OpEdNews

Summary: Lynn Margulis, Ph.D., member of the National  Academy of Sciences and world renowned scientist,  characterized the official account of 9/11 as "a fraud" and called for  a new investigation, "I suggest that those of us aware and concerned  demand that the glaringly erroneous official account of 9/11 be  dismissed as a fraud and a new, thorough, and impartial investigation  be undertaken."  



Aug. 21, 2007:  Former  Chief of NIST's Fire Science Division Calls for Independent Review of  World Trade Center Investigation
PDF Version      Article on OpEdNews

Summary: James Quintiere, Ph.D.,  former Chief of NIST's Fire Science Division, called  for an independent review of the World Trade Center Twin Tower collapse  investigation. "I wish that there would be a peer review of this," he  said, referring to the NIST investigation. "I think all the records  that NIST has assembled should be archived. I would really like to see  someone else take a look at what they've done; both structurally and  from a fire point of view. ... I think the official conclusion that  NIST arrived at is questionable."  



July 16, 2007:  Former  California Seismic Safety Commissioner Endorses 9/11 Truth Movement
Prominent Engineer Calls for a New Investigation of 9/11
PDF Version      Article on OpEdNews

Summary:  J. Marx Ayres, MS, former member of the National  Institute of Sciences Building Safety Council and former  member of the California Seismic Safety Commission called for a new investigation of 9/11, "Steven Jones' call for a  serious investigation of the hypothesis that the WTC 7 and the Twin  Towers were brought down, not just by impact damage and fire, but  through the use of pre-positioned 'cutter-charges' must be the rallying  cry for all building design experts to speak out."





LINKS TO 9/11  RESOURCES
A wealth of information about 9/11 is available on the Internet and in books and videos. I cannot list them all. However, the following links are good places to begin looking for information.




9/11 Truth Movement Sites
9/11 Truth Videos 
9/11 Commission Report and Defenders
9/11 Families


911Truth.org
9/11: Press for Truth 
9-11Commission.gov
WTC United Family Group


Architects and Engineers for 9/11 Truth 
Loose Change 
National Institute of Standards and Technology 
Families of September 11


Firefighters for 9/11 Truth 
9/11 Mysteries 
Popular Mechanics 
September 11th Families Association 


Lawyers for 9/11 Truth
 David Ray Griffin's 9/11 The Myth and the Reality 
  
Peaceful Tomorrows 


Medical Professionals for 9/11 Truth
9-11 Ripple Effect 
  
  


Muslim-Jewish-Christian Alliance for 9/11 Truth
Painful Deceptions
 
  


Pilots for 9/11 Truth 
September 11 Revisited 
 
 


Political Leaders for 9/11 Truth 
911 Eyewitness 
  
  


Religious Leaders for 9/11 Truth 
Improbable Collapse 
 
 


Scholars for 9/11 Truth
Zero: An Investigation Into 9/11
 
 


Scholars for 9/11 Truth & Justice 
9/11: Blueprint for  Truth
 
 


Scientists for 9/11 Truth
National Security Alert
 
 


Actors and Artists for 9/11 Truth
 
 
 


Scientific Panel Investigating 9/11
 
 
 


Veterans for 9/11 Truth 
 
 
 


Complete 9/11 Timeline 
  
  
  


9/11Blogger.com
 
 
 


9/11 Information Center 
 
 
 


Killtown
 
 
 


9/11Proof.com
 
 
 


9/11 Forum - UK 
 
 
 


ReOpen911.info - France 
 
 
 




9/11 Truth Petitions


Architects and Engineers Petition for a New 9/11 Investigation


Firefighters for 9/11 Truth Petition


Lawyers for 9/11 Truth


Medical Professionals for 9/11 Truth Petition for a New 9/11 Investigation


Political Leaders for 9/11 Truth Petition for a New 9/11 Investigation


Religious Leaders for 9/11 Truth Petition for a New 9/11 Investigation


Scientists for 9/11 Truth Petition for a New 9/11 Investigation


Actors and Artists for 9/11 Truth Petition for a New 9/11 Investigation


War Is Illegal Petition 


New York City Ballot Initiative for a New 9/11 Investigation 


9/11: Breaking the Wall of Silence (11 Settembre 2001: Rompere il muro del silenzio)


Demand that the Canadian Government Investigate 9/11


Prominent Americans and 9/11 Family Members for a New 9/11 Investigation 


Petition for the Release of CIA Documents Pertaining to 9/11 


Petition For An Independent International Truth Commission On 9/11


Justice for 9/11 Petition for a New 9/11 Investigation 


Citizens Request for the FBI to                        Review 9-11


Scholars Petition for Release of 9/11 Information


 











