A Catholic Citizen in America - powered by FeedBurner
&



A Catholic Citizen in America

syndicated content powered by FeedBurner






...

Reset this favorite; show all Subscribe options



Subscribe Now!
...with web-based news readers. Click your choice below:







...with other readers:

(Choose Your Reader)FeedDemonNetNewsWireNewsFireNewsGator Outlook EditionRSSOwlShrookUniversal Subscription Mechanism (USM)


 View Feed XML




FeedBurner makes it easy to receive content updates in My Yahoo!, Newsgator, Bloglines, and other news readers.

Learn more about syndication and FeedBurner...

Current Feed Content



Catching Up on Reflections


Posted: 2011-09-05 19:51:11 UTC-05:00
I finally got August 28th's 'Reflections from Sauk Centre's Our Lady of Angels Church ' posted:"22nd Sunday in Ordinary Time 2011"
(August 28, 2011)As usual, when I've slipped behind, the new post's date stamp shows when it should have shown up.

Now, I've got the local Knights of Columbus bulletin to get ready for printing - and that's another topic.





Loving Neighbors: Even the One Who Stole Our Gospel Book


Posted: 2011-09-05 10:16:11 UTC-05:00
Over the years, I've gotten used to seeing the Gospel book on the altar before Mass. That's the one with the gold-leaf cover, with Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John:


Our Lady of Angels church in Sauk Centre, Minnesota: Before Mass on March 7, 2010.


Same place, same time: a closer look at what's on the altar.

I doubt I'll see it again. Someone stole it this week.
Stealing The Gospel Book, and Candle MoneyWe celebrated Mass, anyway. The parish has backup copies of the Bible. They don't look as nice, but they get the job done.

Still, it's disappointing. Putting it mildly.

I'm assuming that it was the same thief or thieves who stole money from two votive candle collection boxes. The money's gone, at any rate.

The parish priest let us know what happened during announcements at Mass this morning: as an explanation for why Our Lady of Angels church will now be locked after Mass.

No more going into the sanctuary for meditation and prayer during the day. That's a big disappointment. Still, we don't have much of a choice. We don't want a parishioner walking in on a burglary. That could end badly.
Church Robbed: Good News, Bad NewsThe good news is that nobody got hurt.

The bad news is that we can no longer leave the church open for folks who just want to stop in. Also, we lost a little money from the collection boxes - and replacing the Gospel Book will be another expense.

Despite the impression some may have, your typical Catholic parish in central Minnesota isn't rolling in money. We get by, and can pitch in when the diocese passes the hat for a special collection. But we don't have a gazillion megabucks coming in each Sunday.

Still, like I said, we get by:
"Three Parishes, a Central Minnesota Diocese, and Change"
(May 9, 2010)
"Haiti, Death Toll & Lent"
(February 22, 2010)
Churches and Convenience StoresWhat about 'all that money' we put in the collection plate? That's handled about the same way a business would: it's counted, recorded, and promptly deposited with an institution that specializes in keeping cash safe.

It's like those signs near the door of a convenience store. The ones that tell how little cash is kept in the till.

As for the gold on the Gospel Book's cover? It's anodized gold - a micron or so thick. I'll get back to that in another post.
Stealing the Candle MoneyMoney did accumulate in the votive candle collection boxes: mostly quarters and one dollar bills. I've gone in from time to time, during the week, to light a candle and pray. The candles cost money, which is why the box is there.


Collection box for votive candles near church entrance, Our Lady of Angels, Sauk Centre, Minnesota. More good news: the boxes weren't seriously damaged. (September 4, 2011)


St. Joseph votive candles, Our Lady of Angels, Sauk Centre, Minnesota. (September 4, 2011)

Thanks to whoever broke in - again - I won't be able to do that. Except right before and after Mass.

Too bad.
Church Teachings May Sound HarshSome of what the Church teaches may sound a bit harsh. We're taught, for instance, that theft isn't right. (Catechism of the Catholic Church, 2408) Even if the theft is done 'legally:' unjustly taking someone's property, but observing civil law. (Catechism, 2409) We're even told that a thief should make restitution for what was stolen. (Catechism, 2412)

Do I think it's okay to tell God that the [expletive] who stole the candle money should burn in everlasting fire, but first pay for what was stolen?

No. Not at all. Definitely not. I do not need that kind of trouble.

We're expected to use judgment - but not to judge others:
" 1 2 'Stop judging, that you may not be judged. For as you judge, so will you be judged, and the measure with which you measure will be measured out to you. Why do you notice the splinter in your brother's eye, but do not perceive the wooden beam in your own eye? How can you say to your brother, "Let me remove that splinter from your eye," while the wooden beam is in your eye?You hypocrite, 3 remove the wooden beam from your eye first; then you will see clearly to remove the splinter from your brother's eye.' "
(Matthew 7:1-5)After that, I'm going to ask the Almighty to smite 'that sinner over there?' Not likely.
'Love Thy Neighbor' - No Matter WhatNot only am I not allowed to hope that someone else 'gets it,' I've got to love whoever stole the Gospel Book.

Like I've said before, Jesus told us that the Commandments boiled down to 'Love God, love your neighbor.' (Matthew 22:36-40, Mark 12:28-31) And that everybody is our neighbor. (Matthew 5:43-44; Mark 12:28-31; Luke 10:25-30; Catechism of the Catholic Church, 1825)

Over the last two millennia, the Catholic Church has thought about that the "love your neighbor" thing applies to dealing with each other. Like this bit of instruction:
"Christ died out of love for us, while we were still 'enemies.'100 The Lord asks us to love as he does, even our enemies, to make ourselves the neighbor of those farthest away, and to love children and the poor as Christ himself.101
"The Apostle Paul has given an incomparable depiction of charity: 'charity is patient and kind, charity is not jealous or boastful; it is not arrogant or rude. Charity does not insist on its own way; it is not irritable or resentful; it does not rejoice at wrong, but rejoices in the right. Charity bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things.'102"(Catechism of the Catholic Church (1825)We're supposed to love - everybody. (Matthew 5:43-44, Luke 10:25-37)

I can't say that I feel all warm and fuzzy about whoever stole my parish's Gospel Book. But it doesn't say "like your neighbor." It's 'love your neighbor.'

Related posts:
"Loving Neighbors: No Matter What"
(May 10, 2011)
Particularly'God is on My Side?' Or 'I'm on God's Side?'

"Hating People? Not an Option"
(December 9, 2010)
"School Evacuation in Ireland, Original Sin, and Sparks"
(September 6, 2010)
"Rules, the Catholic Church, Neighbors and Me"
(June 18, 2010)
"Anger, Hate, Love, Prayer and Trashing a Maywood, California, Catholic School"
(May 26, 2010)






What I Believe, Where I Stand


Posted: 2011-09-04 12:02:38 UTC-05:00
This blog's description is "following Catholic beliefs and practices in America: One man's experience." 

I thought I'd be writing more about my everyday experiences, back in September of 2008. Instead, I found myself writing posts that were more like
Position papers
Discussions of something I read in the news
Reports of something I'd learned
Which are, I suppose, my "everyday experiences." I'm a convert to Catholicism, and - according to one of my kids - a nerd. She's probably right about that. (Apathetic Lemming of the North (April 15, 2011)) I'm fascinated by what the Church has learned over the last two millennia, and love sharing what I find.Hope, Home Schooling, Astrobiology, and PoliticsThis quartet of posts gives a pretty good idea of what being Catholic is like for me. Your experience may vary."Christianity: A Religion of Hope"
(May 5, 2011)Gloominess is NotNext to Godliness
The same as solemnity


"Home Schooling, Religious and Moral Instruction, and American Culture"
(March 6, 2010)All Christians are not dolts

Astrobiology, the Vatican, and the Meaning of Our Existence"
(November 12, 2009)Everybody Knows" What Those Christians are LikeNot


"Conservative? Liberal? Democrat? Republican? No, I'm Catholic"
(November 3, 2008)

There's more to it than that, of course.Citizenship, Freedom, and Being CatholicThe last post, from November of 2008, "Conservative? Liberal? Democrat? Republican? No, I'm Catholic" doesn't mean that 'I take no interest in politics.' As a practicing Catholic, I have to take an active part in public life, if possible. (Catechism of the Catholic Church, 1915)

Catholics are supposed to "contribute along with the civil authorities to the good of society in a spirit of truth, justice, solidarity, and freedom." (Catechism, 2239)

That doesn't mean that we're supposed to force others to say they agree with us. Religious freedom is important. (Catechism, 2104-2109) Religious freedom for everybody
(Catechism, 2106)Where I Stand, What the Catholic Church SaysI updated a list of posts that show where I stand on some issues and topics. And, more to the point, what the Catholic Church says about what's so.

Selected posts, by topic: 
Annulment
"Annulment: Divorce, Catholic Style - NOT!"
(March 27, 2009)

Authority
"Authority: My Wife's Right"
(March 30, 2011)
"Why Don't I Cite 'Pastor Bob' as My Authority?"
(May 27, 2010)
"A Young Man With 'Old' Ideas, Vatican II, and the AmChurch"
(April 25, 2010)
"The Catholic Church: Authoritarian, Which Isn't Necessarily a Bad Thing"
(October 2, 2008)

Capital Punishment
"Capital Punishment: Killing Those Who Deserve to Die"
(October 2, 2008)

Citizenship"America's Economy Isn't Doomed?!"
(August 10, 2011)
"It's 'Patriot Dream,' Not 'Patriot Delusion' "
(July 4, 2011)
" (March 22, 2011)
 
"Living in America and Living a Catholic Life"
(April 29, 2010)
"Elections and Citizenship, Catholic Style"
(September 24, 2008)

Clockwork universe" 'Cafeteria Catholics' and a Diverse Church"
(June 8, 2009)
ParticularlyThe Nature of the Universe: Also a Big Deal


Communicating"Social Media Guidelines from American Bishops"
(July 21, 2010)
"Compromise, No: Communicate, Yes"
(June 16, 2010)
Blog Comments, by Matthew Warner"Matthew Warner on Blog Comments: Part 3 of 2"
(June 11, 2010)
"Blog Comments Categorized: Encouragers to Aliens II - The Response"
Apathetic Lemming of the North (June 4, 2010)
"Blog Comments Categorized: Encouragers to Aliens"
Apathetic Lemming of the North (May 28, 2010)

"Those Heretics May Not Like being Called Heretics"
(May 16, 2010)

Cultural differences" 'Americans are Loud,' 'Japanese are Stoic,' 'Germans are Organized:' Stereotypes and Me"
(March 20, 2011)
"Unity, Diversity, and Being Catholic"
(August 26, 2010)
"Nigeria, the 'Envelope System,' and being a Parishioner"
(July 5, 2010)
"Accommodating Indigenous Cultures: Including Ours"
(January 10, 2010)
ParticularlyDance? In Church?!


Emotions"Giving: From the Heart, and Other Vital Organs"
(March 17, 2011)
"You think You had a Bad Day? Elijah, Jezebel, and a Reality Check"
(January 16, 2011)
"Hating People? Not an Option"
(December 9, 2010)
"Really Spiritual Experiences: Those are Okay"
April 22, 2010)
"Emotions, the Frontal Cortex, The War on Terror, Anarchists, and the Illuminati"
Another War-on-Terror Blog (December 23, 2008)

Evolution"Evolution, Space Aliens, and Two Millennia of Dealing With People"
(July 5, 2011)
"Copernicus, Galileo, Science and a Reality Check"
(October 26, 2009)
ParticularlyHeliocentrism, Evolution, and Here We Go Again

"Dinosaurs, Mutant Chickens, Evolution, and Faith in God"
(June 29, 2009)

Faith and Reason (also see science, below)"Living in the Real World"
(August 22, 2010)
"Saint Thomas Aquinas, Pope Benedict XVI, Faith and Reason"
(June 24, 2010)
"It's Faith and Reason"
(June 19, 2010)
"Reason, Faith and 'What Folks Know, that Just Ain't So' "
(June 4, 2010)
"Faith and Reason, Religion and Science"
(March 20, 2009)

 Medical ethics"Courtney Nash, Organ Transplants, and Bingo"
(August 15, 2011)
"Remember: 'Clinically Dead' isn't 'Dead' "
(October 22, 2010)
"Stem Cell Research: Backed by the Vatican, No Kidding"
(April 28, 2010)
"Medical Ethics and Human Experimentation: Why I Take it Personally"
(February 3, 2009)
"Human Clones Possible: Don't Worry, They're Just for Parts and Research"
(February 2, 2009)

Politics"Separation of Church and State, Assumptions, and Fear"
(September 2, 2011)
"Politics, Headlines, Bachmann, and 'Those Catholics' "
(July 17, 2011)
""I Take No Interest in Politics" isn't an Option"
(March 29, 2010)
"Conservative? Liberal? Democrat? Republican? No, I'm Catholic"
(November 3, 2008)

Religion"Christianity: A Religion of Hope"
(May 5, 2011)
"Uncertainty, 'Being Religious,' and This Catholic"
(February 12, 2011)
"Religion isn't For Blind Sheep?"
(December 10, 2010)
"Assumptions About Religion, and American Rules of Etiquette"
(April 14, 2010)
"Relgion isn't Bad?"
(April 12, 2010)

Sex"New York State Senate Okays Same-Sex Marriage: My Take"
(June 25, 2011)
"No Open Season on Transgendered People, Please!"
(April 26, 2011)
"Sex, the Practicing Catholic, and Vatican Roulette"
(June 5, 2010)
"Pedophile Priests, Those 'Confused' Catholics, and the 'Tolerant' Press"
(April 1, 2010)
Also see"Pedophile Priests, Ephebophilia, and Facing Facts"
Link page

"The Catholic Church and Homosexuals: Harsh and Soft, Judgmental and Understanding"(March 13, 2009)

Science (also see Faith and reason, above)"When to Call Tech Support, When to Read the Bible"
(January 14, 2011)
"God's Creation: He Seems to Think Big"
(September 23, 2010)
"Physics and God, Hammers and Architects"
(September 7, 2010)
"Science vs. Religion: the Same Tired Old Line"
(June 5, 2010)
"Astrobiology, the Vatican, and the Meaning of Our Existence"
(November 12, 2009)

Link list: 
"What do I Really Feel About [___]"






Separation of Church and State, Assumptions, and Fear


Posted: 2011-09-03 09:57:34 UTC-05:00
This is my third post about an op-ed piece by The New York Times' executive editor. He made some all-too-familiar assumptions about religious beliefs.
Op-ed in The New York Times"Asking Candidates Tougher Questions About Faith"
Bill Keller, Magazine, The New York Times (August 25, 2011)

My posts"Space Aliens, Michele Bachmann, and Daft Assumptions"
(September 2, 2011)
"New York Times Editor, Religion, and Politics: Benign But Clueless"
(September 1, 2011)

Mr. Keller also thinks that a political candidate's religious beliefs matter, and that reporters should ask questions about those beliefs. That makes sense.

Mr. Keller also seems to think that religious beliefs, if taken seriously, are a symptom of delusional thinking. That doesn't make sense. Not to me.

But then, I'm one of those people who have religious beliefs: and 'everybody knows' what they're like.
The Establishment Clause, and Fear of Religious PeopleBear with me, please: This is a long quote. I think it's important to show what Mr. Keller wrote.
"...Rick Perry and Michele Bachmann are both affiliated with fervid subsets of evangelical Christianity - and Rick Santorum comes out of the most conservative wing of Catholicism - which has raised concerns about their respect for the separation of church and state, not to mention the separation of fact and fiction....

"...Every faith has its baggage, and every faith holds beliefs that will seem bizarre to outsiders. I grew up believing that a priest could turn a bread wafer into the actual flesh of Christ...."1[emphasis mine]When folks refer to the "separation of church and state," the odds are that they mean the "establishment clause" in the First Amendment to the Constitution:
"...Two clauses in the First Amendment guarantee freedom of religion. The establishment clause prohibits the government from passing legislation to establish an official religion or preferring one religion over another. It enforces the 'separation of church and state.'..."
("First Amendment," LII / Legal Information Institute, Cornell University Law School)Note: That's "freedom of religion," not "freedom from religion."

I've written about "separation of church and state" before:
" 'Separation of church and state' can mean anything from what the Constitution actually says, to the idea that those religious people should stay behind closed doors when they practice their - you know, that religious stuff....

"...The folks who wrote up this country's Constitution were familiar with state religions in Europe. Which is, I think, what's behind the "establishment clause." Of course, I'm one of those folks who have a 'narrow' mind. I don't get the sort of mystic crystal revelation that makes it possible to see things that aren't written in the first amendment. I discussed America's creative judiciary and Iowa on Wednesday. (November 3, 2010)..."2)Concerns about the "separation of church and state are nothing new. The First Amendment to the Constitution includes a clause reflecting the former colonists' determination to not repeat one of Europe's mistakes.

That was then, this is now. What started as a legal measure to prevent someone from setting up a state church has changed. In the minds of America's information gatekeepers, anyway.3 The bogey man for many today seems to be religious beliefs of any sort, and the folks who take them seriously.

I'd probably as concerned as Mr. Keller, if someone tried to set up a state religion in America. Partly because I know history, partly because I have personal experience with flaky faith. I grew up in an area where a particularly virulent strain of religion was endemic. I've discussed malignant virtue, and how that was involved in my conversion to Catholicism before.

Nobody in this season's crop of candidates has called for repeal of the establishment clause, as far as I know. For which I'm duly grateful.

Why would anyone be afraid of religious people? I think it has to do with what America's 'better sort' think people who take their faith seriously are like.
'Stupid Religious People,' Assumptions, and FearThere are folks who seem determined to prove that 'nothing makes people stupider than religion.'4


(ArizonaLincoln (talk), via Wikipedia, used w/o permission)

That's part of Fred Phelps' little band. He's got a sort of roll-your-own version of Christianity, and makes the news when his followers disrupt another funeral. The anti-Semitism expressed is a little unusual for what appears to be an American Protestant denomination.

Fred Phelp's Westboro (Kansas) Baptist Church isn't, as I've said before, typical of Christianity. It's not even representative of American Protestantism.

That lot, folks like the serial Quran burners in Florida, and Harold Camping's followers, tend to get in the news. They're loud, colorful, and often have a flair for the dramatic.

And they're 'religious people.' No wonder The New York Times' Mr. Keller is concerned about one of them running for office.Not-So-Stupid Religious PeopleThese are 'religious people,' too. I think they're not quite the same as Fred Phelps' bunch.


(The Pontifical Academy of Sciences, used w/o permission)

Catholics don't all wear 'funny looking' clothes. The clergy in that photo are in uniform. It's a photo from the Pontifical Academy of Sciences' home page.

Which gets me into the topics of science, faith, Gregor Mendel, Bishop Ussher: and a longer discussion than I have time for tonight.Freedom of Religion: For EverybodyI've said this before: The Catholic Church teaches that freedom of religion is important. (Catechism of the Catholic Church, 2104-2109)

Religious freedom for everybody:
" 'Nobody may be forced to act against his convictions, nor is anyone to be restrained from acting in accordance with his conscience in religious matters in private or in public, alone or in association with others, within due limits.'34 This right is based on the very nature of the human person, whose dignity enables him freely to assent to the divine truth which transcends the temporal order. For this reason it 'continues to exist even in those who do not live up to their obligation of seeking the truth and adhering to it.'35"
(Catechism, 2106)I don't expect Mr. Keller to believe this, but he's safe from Catholics. We're not allowed to force our faith on others.

We are, however, obliged to point out when ethical principles are violated. And that's another topic.

Related posts:
"Space Aliens, Michele Bachmann, and Daft Assumptions"
(September 2, 2011)
"New York Times Editor, Religion, and Politics: Benign But Clueless"
(September 1, 2011)
"Religious Freedom, a Spanish Archbishop, and Pew Research"
(August 14, 2011)
ParticularlyBurning Books, Disrupting Funerals, and Getting a Grip

"Politics, Headlines, Bachmann, and 'Those Catholics' "
(July 17, 2011)
"Home Schooling: It May Not be What You Think"
(May 20, 2010)
Views:
"Asking Candidates Tougher Questions About Faith"
Bill Keller, Magazine, The New York Times (August 25, 2011)
1 Quotes are from:
"Asking Candidates Tougher Questions About Faith"
Bill Keller, Magazine, The New York Times (August 25, 2011)
2 Source:
"Fugitive Safe Surrender: My Take"
(November 5, 2010)
3 A gatekeeper is literally a doorkeeper or doorman: someone who guards an entrance. "Gatekeeper" may also be used as a metaphor: "gatekeeper (someone who controls access to something) 'there are too many gatekeepers between the field officers and the chief' "
(Princeton's WordNet)So, an "information gatekeeper" is someone who controls access to information. In America, traditional information gatekeepers have been educators, librarians, journalists, and media decision-makers. Happily, most believe that it's important to share information. "The public has a right to know" expressed that belief.

Not-so-happily, America's information gatekeepers tend to share a fairly well-defined set of values and cultural preferences. This affects their perceptions. As a result, much of the news and entertainment Americans get represents the world as a particular set of subcultures believes it is. I've discussed this sort of thing before: "Huckleberry Finn, [redacted] Jim, and Making Sense"
(June 24, 2011)
" 'Pay No Attention to the Man Behind the Curtain:' The Pope in Spain"
(November 11, 2010)
ParticularlyInformation Gatekeepers in a Changing World

"What is an Information Gatekeeper?"
Another War-on-Terror Blog (August 14, 2009)
4 Excerpt from a message by University of Minnesota, Morris, associate professor Paul Myers:"There are days when it is agony to read the news, because people are so goddamned stupid. Petty and stupid. Hateful and stupid. Just plain stupid. And nothing makes them stupider than religion...."
(Paul Myers, from Pharyngula (July, 2008)))I've quoted University of Minnesota, Morris, associate professor Paul Myers before:"New York Times Editor, Religion, and Politics: Benign But Clueless"
(September 1, 2011)
Particularly"Death Cookie," "God Hates You," and a Professor
"Quran, Eucharist, Atheist Book Nailed by Equal-Opportunity Desecrator"
(August 4, 2008)






Space Aliens, Michele Bachmann, and Daft Assumptions


Posted: 2011-09-02 23:43:32 UTC-05:00
I discussed what The New York Times' executive editor said about religious beliefs and news coverage of political campaigns yesterday:
Op-ed in The New York Times"Asking Candidates Tougher Questions About Faith"
Bill Keller, Magazine, The New York Times (August 25, 2011)

My post"New York Times Editor, Religion, and Politics: Benign But Clueless"
(September 1, 2011)

I ended my post with a list of some topics which Mr. Keller, the editor, had raised in his op-ed:
What Ephesians actually says
Michelle Bachmann
Separation of Church and State
Freedom of religionIt's not freedom from religion

Racism
Catholic doctrine and homosexuality
Science
Faith and Reason
Sensible Idea; Daft AssumptionsI still think that Bill Keller means well. I also think that his basic idea is sensible, thatreligious beliefs matter
Political candidates should be asked questions about what they believeAnd how it affects their perceptions and decisions

On the other hand, Mr. Keller seems to have drearily familiar assumptions about:
What "religious beliefs" are
How "reality-based" religious people are
The dangers of having public officials who take their religious beliefs seriously
Why Discuss What Some Editor Thinks?Mr. Keller's assumptions are not held by folks at the fringes of society, with little or no practical influence on what the rest of us see, read, and hear.

They're what 'everybody knows' among America's self-described best and brightest. What the rest of us read and view is, to a great extent, determined by their perceptions and preferences.

That's partly because many folks see The New York Times as 'America's newspaper of record.' I think The N. Y. Times is one of New York City's major hometown papers, reflecting the interests and attitudes of the city's 'better' class: and I've discussed that before. Fairly often.1

An executive editor of 'America's newspaper of record' has quite a bit of influence. What he and his associates think is true affects what gets published in the Times: and repeated by less high-profile publications across the country.

Sadly, Mr. Keller is ill-informed about "religious beliefs," and folks who take them seriously.

Bottom line? The folks in this Reuters photo aren't typical 'religious people.' They're not even typical of American Protestants:



I think it's time for Mr. Keller and others in America's upper crust to examine their assumptions. Basing beliefs on innuendo, rumors, and what your buddies think may allow real-life analogs of Archie Bunker and Frank Burns to get by. I don't think it's a healthy way to live: and that's another topic.

Now, about Mr. Keller's assumptions about religious beliefs and the people who have them.
Space Aliens and the Coming ElectionMr. Keller's op-ed starts by comparing belief "that space aliens dwell among us" to having religious beliefs:
"If a candidate for president said he believed that space aliens dwell among us, would that affect your willingness to vote for him? Personally, I might not disqualify him out of hand ... I would certainly want to ask a few questions. Like, where does he get his information? Does he talk to the aliens? Do they have an economic plan?

"Yet when it comes to the religious beliefs of our would-be presidents, we are a little squeamish about probing too aggressively. Michele Bachmann was asked during the Iowa G.O.P. debate what she meant when she said the Bible...."2I'll get back to Michele Bachmann in a bit.

I was - impressed - by the comparison, but not because I believe that space aliens do not exist.

I don't believe "that space aliens dwell among us." Some entertaining stories have been written with that premise: but that's fiction.

I don't believe that space aliens can't exist, either. As a practicing Catholic, that'd be against the rules: and has been, since the 13th century. That's when "all who hold the Aristotelian position 'that the first cause cannot make more than one world' " were told they were wrong. (The bishop of Paris, Etienne Tempier, Proposition 27/219 (1277))3 To the best of my knowledge, Proposition 27 hasn't been rescinded.

Is saying we mustn't claim that God can't create what He wants being narrow-minded? I don't think so: more like acknowledging the power of God.
Michele Bachmann, Ephesians, and Getting a GripGetting back to Mr. Keller's op-ed:
"...Michele Bachmann was asked during the Iowa G.O.P. debate what she meant when she said the Bible obliged her to 'be submissive' to her husband, and there was an audible wave of boos - for the question, not the answer...."2Oh, dear. I'd like to know the answer to that myself. Ephesians 5:21-30 is another of those parts of the Bible where folks don't read the whole thing. I know there are groups who say otherwise, but 'shut up and fetch the beer' isn't the message to women. Again, I've posted about that sort of thing.4

As for booing the question? I don't know enough about the context of that meeting to have an opinion.Educating a Conscience, Assumptions, and the GIGO RuleA thousand years ago, some of my ancestors were conducting human sacrifices. I don't think that was right: at least partly because I've got information they didn't.

We call the ability to tell the difference between good and bad, and decide to do good, the conscience. (Catechism of the Catholic Church, 1777) The Church says that listening to our conscience is important. (Catechism, 1779)

So is training our conscience:"Conscience must be informed and moral judgment enlightened. A well-formed conscience is upright and truthful. It formulates its judgments according to reason, in conformity with the true good willed by the wisdom of the Creator. The education of conscience is indispensable for human beings who are subjected to negative influences and tempted by sin to prefer their own judgment and to reject authoritative teachings.

"The education of the conscience is a lifelong task. From the earliest years, it awakens the child to the knowledge and practice of the interior law recognized by conscience. Prudent education teaches virtue; it prevents or cures fear, selfishness and pride, resentment arising from guilt, and feelings of complacency, born of human weakness and faults. The education of the conscience guarantees freedom and engenders peace of heart."
(Catechism, 1783-1784)Anyone who's programmed, and many who work with computers, know about GIGO: "a rule stating that the quality of the output is a function of the quality of the input; put garbage in and you get garbage out." (Princeton's WordNet)

I think the same rule applies to people. A person who mistakes assumptions for facts could use the finest logic: and come to a wrong conclusion. It's a 'been there, done that' situation for me. I've had to give up some cherished beliefs, like the clockwork universe notion; and using contraceptives. And I'm still working at educating my conscience. Like the Catechism says, it's a life-long job.

And distinguishing between assumptions and facts is vital.Fact, Fiction, and BiasI've got more to say about Mr. Keller's assumptions about religious belief, and living in the real world. But that will wait.

Related posts:
"New York Times Editor, Religion, and Politics: Benign But Clueless"
(September 1, 2011)
"Religious Freedom, a Spanish Archbishop, and Pew Research"
(August 14, 2011)
ParticularlyBurning Books, Disrupting Funerals, and Getting a Grip

"Assumptions, Bible Verses, and a Little Research"
(July 31, 2011)
"Citizenship, being Catholic, and the Rules of Polite Society"
(March 22, 2011)
"Conservative? Liberal? Democrat? Republican? No, I'm Catholic"
(November 3, 2008)
Views:
"Asking Candidates Tougher Questions About Faith"
Bill Keller, Magazine, The New York Times (August 25, 2011)
1 I think hometown papers serve a useful function, and are important to the communities they serve. By reflecting assumptions and preferences of their readers, they arguably contribute to their community's sense of identity.

In the case of The New York Times, a newspaper which caters to the preferences and assumptions of the local elite has national influence. I don't mind New York City's upper crust having their very own paper. I do think the rest of us should remember what 'America's newspaper of record' is really like:
"Pedophile Priests, Those 'Confused' Catholics, and the 'Tolerant' Press"
(April 1, 2010)
"Pedophile Priests, 'Evil Pope' and The New York Times"
(March 31, 2010)
ParticularlyThe New York Times: An Adequate Hometown Newspaper

"The New York Times and the Information Age: Culture Shock?"
Apathetic Lemming of the North (June 10, 2010)
"New York Times Prints Ersatz Letter, or All the News That's Fit to Fake"
Another War-on-Terror Blog (December 22, 2008)
"The New York Times, Insularity, and Assumptions"
Another War-on-Terror Blog (October 21, 2008)
2 Quotes are from:
"Asking Candidates Tougher Questions About Faith"
Bill Keller, Magazine, The New York Times (August 25, 2011)
3 Toward the end of Europe's Middle Ages, European scholars had studied the works of Aristotle, and took what the ancient Greek said very seriously. So far, so good: Aristotle was a very smart man, and made huge contributions to Western Civilization.

Aristotle doesn't seem to have liked the idea that there could be worlds other than the one we live on. At any rate, he said that we're on the only habitable place.

That's just one man's opinion. But when that man is Aristotle, it makes a difference: 
"...Beginning about 1100 a.d., text after text of the great Greek philosopher Aristotle reached the West, and Christians were suddenly confronted with a unified, well- constructed account of the universe, an account written by a pagan. Aristotle denied that there could be a plurality of worlds. Of course, if there could not be a plurality of worlds, then the question of extraterrestrials was moot.

"There were three reactions to Aristotle's purely natural, non-Christian philosophical account: vehement rejection (the radical Augustinians), careful embrace (St. Thomas), and passionate embrace (the radical Aristotelians).

"Around 1265 a conflict between the two radical wings began to heat up, resulting in the famous (or, for Thomists, infamous) 219 Propositions in 1277, issued by the bishop of Paris, Etienne Tempier. Proposition 27 condemns all who hold the Aristotelian position 'that the first cause cannot make more than one world.' 

"It should be stressed that the aim of this condemnation was not to affirm a plurality of worlds but to affirm God's omnipotence against any account of nature that seemed to restrict God's powers. Aristotle's insistence that there could only be one world accorded nicely with the Genesis account of creation, but it appeared to the radical Augustinians to make God the servant of natural necessity rather than its master...."
("Alien Ideas Christianity and the Search for Extraterrestrial Life," Benjamin D. Wiker, Crisis 20, no. 10 (November 2002))A little over seven centuries later, we still don't know for sure whether there's life anywhere except on Earth.

But, as a practicing Catholic, I'm not going to say that God couldn't have created a space-time continuum with life on more than on ball of rock. I've discussed this before: 
Living in a (really) big world"Life on Other Worlds, and the Catholic Church"
(January 11, 2011)
"God's Creation: He Seems to Think Big"
(September 23, 2010)
" Report of a UFO Would 'Destroy One's Belief in the Church?!' "
(August 6, 2010)
"The Catholic Church: Universal. Really"
(April 19, 2010)
Particularly"Universal?" You Ain't Seen Nothin' Yet

"Astrobiology, the Vatican, and the Meaning of Our Existence"
(November 12, 2009)

Getting a grip"Climate Changes: So What Else is New?"
(May 16, 2011)
"Arithmetic, God, and Getting a Grip"
(April 25, 2011)
"Copernicus, Galileo, Science and a Reality Check"
(October 26, 2009)
"Dinosaurs, Mutant Chickens, Evolution, and Faith in God"
(June 29, 2009)
"Faith and Reason, Religion and Science"
(March 20, 2009)
ParticularlyDarwin and Huxley vs. Ussher and Carlyle
What If Darwin Had Been an Astronomer?


Space aliens, and extraterrestrial intelligence, in other blogs"Beware Warmonger Imperialist Space Aliens!?"
Apathetic Lemming of the North (January 11, 2011)
"Gliese 581g, Space Aliens, and the Canals of Mars"
Apathetic Lemming of the North (October 12, 2010)
"Gliese 581g, Alien Angst, and the Lemming"
Apathetic Lemming of the North (October 4, 2010)
"Gods, Demons, and Used Spaceship Dealers"
Drifting at the Edge of Time and Space (February 13, 2010)
"'All We Want is Peace and Quiet' - Another Look at the Mind of the Alien"
Drifting at the Edge of Time and Space (December 9, 2009)

Background: 
"Study Week on Astrobiology"
Pontifical Academy of Sciences (November 6-10, 2009)"
(archived September 2, 2011, from vatican.va/roman_curia/pontifical_academies/acdscien/2009/booklet_astrobiology_17.pdf)
"Alien Ideas Christianity and the Search for Extraterrestrial Life"
Benjamin D. Wiker, Crisis 20, no. 10 (November 2002), via Catholic Education Resource Center
"Saint Bonaventure, Francis Mayron, William Vorilong, and the Doctrine of a Plurality of Worlds"
Grant McColley, H. W. Miller, Speculum, Vol. 12, No. 3, (July 1937), via JSTOR
4 I'm slightly sympathetic with the folks who booed that question about Bachmann's take on 'submitting' to her husband. I've gotten a trifle fed up with how folks don't get Ephesians 5:21-30 myself. Despite what some folks assume, it doesn't say that wives should be doormats. Ephesians 5:15 tells me to love my wife "even as Christ loved the church and handed himself over for her."

Posts about Ephesians and assumptions: 
"Yoga, Ephesians, and Getting a Grip"
(May 30, 2011)
"Sex, Marriage, and the Catholic Counter-Culture"
(February 17, 2011)
"Shop Class, Home Ec, and Being Catholic"
(December 14, 2010)






New York Times Editor, Religion, and Politics: Benign But Clueless


Posted: 2011-09-03 01:29:36 UTC-05:00
I'm not the biggest fan of New York City's famous hometown paper. However, I think executive editor Bill Keller made a sensible suggestion a few days ago.

Asking political candidates about their religious beliefs makes sense.

So does getting facts straight.Factual Errors, Assumptions, and Some Guy With a BlogHappily, Mr. Keller has someone on staff who fact-checks now and then. As a result, Rick Santorum is now correctly identified as Catholic in the online version of Mr. Keller's piece. The print edition pegged Mr. Santorum as being an evangelical Christian.

I don't blame Bill Keller for getting that Mr. Santorum's faith wrong: Mr. Keller is a busy man in a big city, and probably didn't have time to Google "Rick Santorum religion." (Try it, without the quotation marks.) It's the sort of factual error I've gotten used to seeing in America's "newspaper of record."

Checking facts before publishing is the sort of thing I do - but I'm not an important man with an important job in a big city. I'm "some guy with a blog," sitting at my desk in a small central Minnesota town. I've long since learned that assuming isn't the same as verifying.Space Aliens, Religious Beliefs, and The New York TimesHere's a (relatively) brief excerpt from Mr. Keller's op-ed. I've highlighted a few points. My take on Mr. Keller's assumptions about religious beliefs pick up at "Religion, The New York Times, and Getting a Grip," below.
"Asking Candidates Tougher Questions About Faith"
Bill Keller, Magazine, The New York Times (August 25, 2011)

"If a candidate for president said he believed that space aliens dwell among us, would that affect your willingness to vote for him? Personally, I might not disqualify him out of hand; one out of three Americans believe we have had Visitors and, hey, who knows? But I would certainly want to ask a few questions. Like, where does he get his information? Does he talk to the aliens? Do they have an economic plan?

"Yet when it comes to the religious beliefs of our would-be presidents, we are a little squeamish about probing too aggressively. Michele Bachmann was asked during the Iowa G.O.P. debate what she meant when she said the Bible obliged her to 'be submissive' to her husband, and there was an audible wave of boos - for the question, not the answer. There is a sense, encouraged by the candidates, that what goes on between a candidate and his or her God is a sensitive, even privileged domain, except when it is useful for mobilizing the religious base and prying open their wallets....

"...Rick Santorum comes out of the most conservative wing of Catholicism - which has raised concerns about their respect for the separation of church and state, not to mention the separation of fact and fiction....

"...But I do want to know if a candidate places fealty to the Bible, the Book of Mormon (the text, not the Broadway musical) or some other authority higher than the Constitution and laws of this country. It matters to me whether a president respects serious science and verifiable history - in short, belongs to what an official in a previous administration once scornfully described as 'the reality-based community.' I do care if religious doctrine becomes an excuse to exclude my fellow citizens from the rights and protections our country promises....

"...From Ryan Lizza's enlightening profile in The New Yorker, I learned that Michele Bachmann's influences include spiritual and political mentors who preach the literal 'inerrancy' of the Bible, who warn Christians to be suspicious of ideas that come from non-Christians, who believe homosexuality is an 'abomination,' who portray the pre-Civil War South as a pretty nice place for slaves and who advocate 'Dominionism,' the view that Christians and only Christians should preside over earthly institutions....

"...Correction: August 28, 2011

"Because of an editing error, an essay on Page 11 this weekend, about the religious beliefs of Republican presidential candidates, misstates the proportion of Americans who believe that extraterrestrials live among us. It is about a third, not a majority. The essay also erroneously includes Rick Santorum among politicians affiliated with evangelical Christianity. Mr. Santorum is Catholic.

"A version of this article appeared in print on August 28, 2011, on page MM11 of the Sunday Magazine with the headline: Not Just Between Them And Their God."Since The New York Times may decide to correct Mr. Keller's piece again - or remove it from their online archive - I put the full text at the end of this post.1 I don't do that often, but what he wrote may become an issue - and I don't want what he actually wrote to get lost in a fog of isolated quotes.Religion, The New York Times, and Getting a GripAgain, I think Mr. Keller has a basically sound point: the religious beliefs of a political candidate matter. I think it's important to know whether a candidate worships God the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit; Elvis Presley; or nothing at all.

That's the good news.

The bad news is that Mr. Keller seems to have an all-too-familiar set of assumptions about religious beliefs. And the people who take them seriously.

I've gotten the idea that quite a few of America's 'better sort' are convinced that 'those religious people over there' aren't quite:Normal
Smart
Educated
Particularly safe to have around
That's hardly surprising, I think, in a comparatively insular subculture like The New Yorker's staff and readers. Despite their reputation as a vastly sophisticated hub of cosmopolitan acumen, I think New York City's 'better sort' are a rather insular, parochial lot. Understandably, perhaps, since there's so much to see and do in New York City: why pay attention to those funny people east of Hoboken? 'Everybody knows' what they're like: or, more accurately, assumes.

I've been over this before:"...The New York times is a newspaper that's been owned by one family for over a hundred years, and started out as New York City's hometown newspaper. To a great extent, it still is the Big Apple's hometown paper...."

"...I think that there's reason to believe that The New York Times is run by what in the good old days would have been called 'the better sort' of New York's people. That means that a very select group of people decides what constitutes 'All the news that's fit to print.' [emphasis mine...."2New York's upper crust and The New York Times aren't alone in having downright odd notions about what commoners are like:"You can't make this kind of stuff up."Congressional aids were advised to get immunized against several diseases, including hepatitis, diphtheria, tetanus and influenza.

"This precaution may be quite understandable, since they were about to embark on a fact-finding journey to a remote, primitive region: the NASCAR tracks in Talladega, Alabama, and Concord, North Carolina.

"Sensible, that is, if you regard everything that isn't in the New York-Washington megalopolis, San Francisco, Los Angeles, and a few other outposts of civilization as a more-or less primitive region, inhabited by wild natives and dubious drinking water...."3"Death Cookie," "God Hates You," and a Professor
I might shun religion and 'those religious people,' like America's self-described best and brightest: if I got my data from what I see on the news. The enthusiasts in this photo are a sample of Christianity, media style:


(Reuters photo, via FoxNews.com, used w/o permission)

That lot is part of Fred Phelp's traveling band of believers. The photo shows them at Arlington National Cemetery.


(Chick Publications, via FoxNews.com, used w/o permission)

Chick Publications isn't the only outfit that seems convinced that the Catholic Church is not nice: but they're one of the major players when it comes to spreading that message.

Small wonder that a university professor thinks that religion makes people "hateful and stupid." To make his point, he desecrated a page from the Quran, and a consecrated Host. Here's the photo he published:


(from PZ Myers, Pharyngula (July 24, 2008), used w/o permission)

The other page is from an atheist's book. University of Minnesota, Morris, associate professor Paul Myers explained why he wanted to enlighten us:"There are days when it is agony to read the news, because people are so goddamned stupid. Petty and stupid. Hateful and stupid. Just plain stupid. And nothing makes them stupider than religion...."
(Quoted in Another War-on-Terror Blog (August 4, 2008))That sort of thing is considered protected speech, by the way: part of American academia's notion of academic freedom. And that's another topic. Almost.Being 'Spiritual,' the Dalai Lama, and ReligionOddly, some of the same folks who think that religion kills people also think that the Dalai Lama is cool. I suspect it's because they see him as a "spiritual" person, not "religious." And that's still another topic.

When you start by assuming that Fred Phelps and his "God Hates You" followers are typical Christians, and that the pedophile priests are typical Catholics: Yeah, I can see why a person might assume that religion is bad for people.

I don't think that's true: just that I can see where the notion comes from.

Like the fellow said:"There are not a hundred people in America who hate the Catholic Church. There are millions of people who hate what they wrongly believe to be the Catholic Church — which is, of course, quite a different thing."
(Bishop Fulton Sheen, Foreword to Radio Replies Vol. 1, page ix (1938), via Wikiquote)Separation of Church and State, Ephesians, and All ThatIt's late, and this post is a long one. Thanks for reading this far, by the way.

I plan to get back to my take on what seem to be Mr. Keller's concerns about religious beliefs tomorrow. I've been over most of it before:What Ephesians actually says
Michelle Bachmann
Separation of Church and State
Freedom of religionIt's not freedom from religion

Racism
Catholic doctrine and homosexuality
Science
Faith and Reason
But it's late, and I need my sleep. Goodnight, and may God bless.

Related posts:
Assumptions, facts, and the Catholic Church
"Politics, Headlines, Bachmann, and 'Those Catholics' "
(July 17, 2011)
" 'Death Cookie' Comic: Seemed Like a Good Idea At the Time?"
(March 5, 2010)
"Religious Symbols Verboten! 'IHS' Verboten! - Rules for Leader's Appearance at Georgetown"
(April 16, 2009)
" 'Catholics and Muslims along with the fake Jews all are Satanic Cults' - Who Knew?"
(April 2, 2009)
"Good News from Africa: But Some People Won't Like It"
(March 17, 2009)

Bias, emotions, and getting a grip"Religious Freedom, a Spanish Archbishop, and Pew Research"
(August 14, 2011)
ParticularlyBurning Books, Disrupting Funerals, and Getting a Grip

"Hating People? Not an Option"
(December 9, 2010)
"Tolerance: Yes, it's a Good Idea"
(August 3, 2009)
"Emotions, the Frontal Cortex, The War on Terror, Anarchists, and the Illuminati"
Another War-on-Terror Blog (December 23, 2008)
"Catholics Don't Believe the Bible: Who Knew?"
(September 26, 2008)

Catholicism in American media
" 'Blessed,' 'Saint,' and News that Makes Sense"
(April 18, 2011)
"From 'Former Altar Boy' to 'And a Catholic Priest'"
(March 31, 2011)
"The Pope and Condoms: It Made a Good Story"
(November 22, 2010)
"Going My Way, and Why Anti-Catholicism is a Good Sign"
(November 18, 2010)
ParticularlyGeneric Niceness in the Movies, Catholic Values, and America's Elite
"Decide Today Whom You will Serve"

"From Father Dowling to The Simpsons: Somebody Finally Got it Right"
(October 21, 2010)

The New York Times"Pedophile Priests, Those 'Confused' Catholics, and the 'Tolerant' Press"
(April 1, 2010)
"Pedophile Priests, 'Evil Pope' and The New York Times"
(March 31, 2010)
ParticularlyThe New York Times: An Adequate Hometown Newspaper

"The New York Times and the Information Age: Culture Shock?"
Apathetic Lemming of the North (June 10, 2010)
"New York Times Prints Ersatz Letter, or All the News That's Fit to Fake"
Another War-on-Terror Blog (December 22, 2008)
"The New York Times, Insularity, and Assumptions"
Another War-on-Terror Blog (October 21, 2008)

News and views:
"NY Times editor slammed for column on presidential candidates' religions"
Marianne Medlin, CNA (Catholic News Agency) (September 1, 2011)
"Bloomberg's 9/11 Gag Rule Insults Catholics"
Catholic League for Religious and Civil Rights (August 31, 2011)
"Asking Candidates Tougher Questions About Faith"
Bill Keller, Magazine, The New York Times (August 25, 2011)
"New York Time's Dumb Take on Catholicism"
Catholic League for Religious and Civil Rights (July 11, 2011)
1 Full text of Mr. Keller's editorial regarding the religious beliefs of presidential candidates:
"Asking Candidates Tougher Questions About Faith"
Bill Keller, Magazine, The New York Times (August 25, 2011)

"If a candidate for president said he believed that space aliens dwell among us, would that affect your willingness to vote for him? Personally, I might not disqualify him out of hand; one out of three Americans believe we have had Visitors and, hey, who knows? But I would certainly want to ask a few questions. Like, where does he get his information? Does he talk to the aliens? Do they have an economic plan?

"Yet when it comes to the religious beliefs of our would-be presidents, we are a little squeamish about probing too aggressively. Michele Bachmann was asked during the Iowa G.O.P. debate what she meant when she said the Bible obliged her to 'be submissive' to her husband, and there was an audible wave of boos - for the question, not the answer. There is a sense, encouraged by the candidates, that what goes on between a candidate and his or her God is a sensitive, even privileged domain, except when it is useful for mobilizing the religious base and prying open their wallets.

"This year's Republican primary season offers us an important opportunity to confront our scruples about the privacy of faith in public life - and to get over them. We have an unusually large number of candidates, including putative front-runners, who belong to churches that are mysterious or suspect to many Americans. Mitt Romney and Jon Huntsman are Mormons, a faith that many conservative Christians have been taught is a 'cult' and that many others think is just weird. (Huntsman says he is not 'overly religious.') Rick Perry and Michele Bachmann are both affiliated with fervid subsets of evangelical Christianity - and Rick Santorum comes out of the most conservative wing of Catholicism - which has raised concerns about their respect for the separation of church and state, not to mention the separation of fact and fiction.

"I honestly don't care if Mitt Romney wears Mormon undergarments beneath his Gap skinny jeans, or if he believes that the stories of ancient American prophets were engraved on gold tablets and buried in upstate New York, or that Mormonism's founding prophet practiced polygamy (which was disavowed by the church in 1890). Every faith has its baggage, and every faith holds beliefs that will seem bizarre to outsiders. I grew up believing that a priest could turn a bread wafer into the actual flesh of Christ.

"But I do want to know if a candidate places fealty to the Bible, the Book of Mormon (the text, not the Broadway musical) or some other authority higher than the Constitution and laws of this country. It matters to me whether a president respects serious science and verifiable history - in short, belongs to what an official in a previous administration once scornfully described as 'the reality-based community.' I do care if religious doctrine becomes an excuse to exclude my fellow citizens from the rights and protections our country promises.

"And I care a lot if a candidate is going to be a Trojan horse for a sect that believes it has divine instructions on how we should be governed.

"So this season I'm paying closer attention to what the candidates say about their faith and what they have said in the past that they may have decided to play down in the quest for mainstream respectability.

"From Ryan Lizza's enlightening profile in The New Yorker, I learned that Michele Bachmann's influences include spiritual and political mentors who preach the literal 'inerrancy' of the Bible, who warn Christians to be suspicious of ideas that come from non-Christians, who believe homosexuality is an 'abomination,' who portray the pre-Civil War South as a pretty nice place for slaves and who advocate 'Dominionism,' the view that Christians and only Christians should preside over earthly institutions.

"From reporting in The Texas Observer and The Texas Monthly, I learned about the Dominionist supporters of Rick Perry, including a number of evangelists to whom Perry gave leading roles in his huge public prayer service, called the Response, early this month.

"Neither Bachmann nor Perry has, as far as I know, pledged allegiance to the Dominionists. Possibly they overlooked those passages in the books and sermons of their spiritual comrades. My informed Texan friends tell me Perry's relationship with the religious fringe is pragmatic, that it is more likely he is riding the movement than it is riding him. But as we have seen with the Tea Party (another political movement Perry hopped aboard in its early days), the support of a constituent group doesn't come without strings.

"In any case, let's ask. In the last presidential campaign, Candidate Obama was pressed to distance himself from his pastor, who carried racial bitterness to extremes, and Candidate McCain was forced to reject the endorsement of a preacher who offended Catholics and Jews. I don't see why Perry and Bachmann should be exempt from similar questioning.

"Asking candidates, respectfully, about their faith should not be an excuse for bigotry or paranoia. I still remember, as a Catholic boy, being mystified and hurt by the speculation about John Kennedy's Catholicism - whether he would be taking orders from the Vatican. (Kennedy addressed the issue of his faith and mostly neutralized it, as Romney tried to do in a 2007 speech that emphasized his common ground with mainstream Christian denominations.) And of course issues of faith should not distract attention from issues of economics and war. But it is worth knowing whether a candidate has a mind open to intelligence that does not fit neatly into his preconceptions.

"To get things rolling, I sent the aforementioned candidates a little questionnaire (which you can find on The 6th Floor blog). Here's a sample:

"•Do you agree with those religious leaders who say that America is a 'Christian nation' or a 'Judeo-Christian nation?' and what does that mean in practice?

"•Would you have any hesitation about appointing a Muslim to the federal bench? What about an atheist?

"•What is your attitude toward the theory of evolution, and do you believe it should be taught in public schools?

"I also asked specific questions of the candidates. I wanted Governor Perry to explain his relationship with David Barton, the founder of the WallBuilders evangelical movement, who preaches that America should have a government 'firmly rooted in biblical principles' and that the Bible offers explicit guidance on public policy - for example, tax policy. Since Barton endorsed Perry in the past, it would be interesting to know whether the governor disagrees with him.

"And what about John Hagee, the Texas evangelist who described Catholicism as a 'godless theology of hate' and declared that the Holocaust was part of God's plan to drive the Jews to Palestine? In the 2008 campaign, John McCain disavowed Hagee's endorsement. This time around, the preacher has reportedly decided to bestow his blessing on Perry's campaign. I wonder if it will be accepted.

"My note to Representative Bachmann asked about the documentary produced last year by a group now known as Truth in Action Ministries, in which she espoused the idea that all money for social welfare should come from charity, not government taxation. Is that a goal she would pursue as president?

"And I'm curious if she stands by her recommendation of that biography of Robert E. Lee by J. Steven Wilkins, who contends the Civil War was a clash between a Christian South and a godless North. Wilkins writes that in the South, contrary to the notion that slaves were victims, there was a 'unity and companionship that existed between the races' because they shared a common faith.

"We'll be posting the campaigns' answers - if any - on nytimes.com. And if they don't answer, let's keep on asking. Because these are matters too important to take on faith.

"Bill Keller is the executive editor of The New York Times. Beginning Sept. 19, he will write a column for the Op-Ed page of The Times and contribute longer reports to the magazine.

"This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:

"Correction: August 28, 2011

"Because of an editing error, an essay on Page 11 this weekend, about the religious beliefs of Republican presidential candidates, misstates the proportion of Americans who believe that extraterrestrials live among us. It is about a third, not a majority. The essay also erroneously includes Rick Santorum among politicians affiliated with evangelical Christianity. Mr. Santorum is Catholic.

"A version of this article appeared in print on August 28, 2011, on page MM11 of the Sunday Magazine with the headline: Not Just Between Them And Their God."2 Source:"The New York Times, Insularity, and Assumptions"
Another War-on-Terror Blog (October 21, 2008)
3 Another excerpt from my war-on-terror blog:"NASCAR Cooties and Federal Intelligence"
Another War-on-Terror Blog (October 12, 2007)






Humans are Animals: But Not Just Animals


Posted: 2011-09-04 01:43:50 UTC-05:00
At the end of yesterday's post, I said I'd get back to Genesis 1:22. That's the verse that starts, "God blessed them, saying, 'Be fertile, multiply....' (Genesis 1:22)

Sounds like what God told our first parents do do, doesn't it?

This "be fertile" command, though, was directed at critters:"God created the great sea monsters and all kinds of swimming creatures with which the water teems, and all kinds of winged birds. God saw how good it was, and God blessed them, saying, 'Be fertile, multiply, and fill the water of the seas; and let the birds multiply on the earth.' "
(Genesis 1:21-22)We come a little later, and got the same basic instructions, plus a sort of special assignment:"God created man in his image; in the divine image he created him; male and female he created them. God blessed them, saying: "Be fertile and multiply; fill the earth and subdue it. Have dominion over the fish of the sea, the birds of the air, and all the living things that move on the earth." "
(Genesis 1:27-28)Oh! Horrors! I Think Humans are Animals?!I'm about as sure as I can be, that human beings are animals. When I look in a mirror, I see eyes, nostrils, and a mouth. That means I've got a physical form, one with characteristics of an animal: the hair tells me I'm looking at a mammal; other characteristics peg me as a primate.

That's assuming that the mirror, my body, the room I'm in, and everything else, isn't a figment of my imagination. Which is another topic.

Does my acknowledging that I'm an animal mean that I 'believe in' Godless science, Communism, and fluoridated water?

No.

I'm a Catholic, so I don't have to check my brain at the door when I enter church. I've discussed Science, religion, and being Catholic quite a bit.

Bottom line? It's faith and reason.Human Beings: Animals, but Not Just AnimalsAs I wrote a couple weeks ago, I like animals. (August 13, 2011) I also noted the basics of what the Catholic Church has to say about what sort of creature a human being is.

Human beings are:AnimalsA special sort of animalEndowed with reason
Capable ofUnderstanding
Discernment

(1951)

PeopleRational and therefore like GodMade in the image and likeness of God
(1700)
Created with free will
Master over our actions
(1730)
(Adapted from the Catechism of the Catholic Church)
Animals?! Eww! That Sounds so - BeastlyTo hear some painfully 'spiritual' Christians talk, a person could get the idea that Jesus came into the world to let us know that His Father had blundered. And that we should shun and despise the physical world. Especially sex.

I don't see things that way. At all. Partly because I like physical things, partly because I think God is competent.

I'll get back to that.God Made a Mistake?!I worship the Eternal God who is:
All-powerfulCreated everything
Rules everything
Can do everything
(Catechism, 268)
The source ofEvery good
All love
All truth
(Catechism, 1723, 2465)
The great HE WHO ISFrom everlasting to everlasting
Without origin and without end
(Catechism, 212-213)

A "mystery without words"Even after revealing Himself"If you understood him, it would not be God"
(St. Augustine)

(Catechism, 230)
If I said that the physical world was bad, I'd be claiming that the great I AM goofed. I do not need that kind of trouble.Fallen, But Basically GoodThe world as it is today, human beings included, isn't in ideal shape. Our first parents made a choice: and we've been living with the consequences ever since. (Catechism, 390, 391)

But God made a creation that's basically good.

God, by the way, after finally getting the descendants of Abraham and Isaac to acknowledge that there was one God: let us know that there are three of him. The Father, Son, and Holy Spirit aren't three gods. (Catechism of the Catholic Church, 659, 689) (July 2, 2011) Yet another topic.'Darkness and Light, Locked in Combat' - Nifty Slogan, and WrongI'm a bit of a nerd. More than a bit, according to #3 daughter. (Apathetic Lemming of the North (April 15, 2011))

My interest in matters of the mind could lead me into Gnosticism: the notion that what matters is knowing the 'inside secrets.'

That would be a very bad idea. The Church has been affirming that Jesus is Man and God since the 3rd century. (Catechism, 465)

Where was I? Creation. The physical world. God doesn't make junk. Right."Utter Pessimism" - Not For MeGnostics thought (and think) that knowledge is important. That, I don't have a problem with.

But they took that truth, and ran with it straight off the edge of sanity's map:"...The Gnostics, it is true, borrowed their terminology almost entirely from existing religions, but they only used it to illustrate their great idea of the essential evil of this present existence and the duty to escape it by the help of magic spells and a superhuman Saviour....

"...This utter pessimism, bemoaning the existence of the whole universe as a corruption and a calamity, with a feverish craving to be freed from the body of this death and a mad hope that, if we only knew, we could by some mystic words undo the cursed spell of this existence — this is the foundation of all Gnostic thought...."
(Catholic Encyclopedia)Sounds like some radio preachers - who inspired me to take a long, hard look at Christianity and other major religions. Which led me to become a Catholic. Yet another topic again.Dualism and Weekend GrillingFor full-bore dualism you'd have to go to Manichaeism. I've put links to background resources under, what else? "Background," near the end of this post.

There are different sorts of dualism. There's the idea that there's a good god and an evil god in opposition to each other, or light and darkness, or some other pair of equally-powerful principles. Then, there's the notion that matter and spirit, body and mind, are radically different - and that one's inherently good, and the other evil.

It doesn't take a degree in theology to guess whether terribly 'spiritual' folks decided which of those pairs was evil. Matter and the body, 'obviously,' are basically icky.

Again, I can't see it that way. God made the physical world, and God doesn't make junk.

That's not just my opinion:"Because God creates through wisdom, his creation is ordered: 'You have arranged all things by measure and number and weight.'151 The universe, created in and by the eternal Word, the 'image of the invisible God', is destined for and addressed to man, himself created in the 'image of God' and called to a personal relationship with God.152 Our human understanding, which shares in the light of the divine intellect, can understand what God tells us by means of his creation, though not without great effort and only in a spirit of humility and respect before the Creator and his work.153 Because creation comes forth from God's goodness, it shares in that goodness - 'And God saw that it was good. . . very good'154 - for God willed creation as a gift addressed to man, an inheritance destined for and entrusted to him. On many occasions the Church has had to defend the goodness of creation, including that of the physical world.155"
(Catechism of the Catholic Church, 299) [emphasis mine]Looks like I don't need to writhe in agony because I enjoy grilling burgers on weekends. As God was creating the physical world, He "saw that it was good. . . very good."Spiritual People: There Ain't No Other KindEver hear someone talk about 'spiritual' people? In contrast with not-spiritual people, I suppose.

Turns out, I'm a 'spiritual' person. So are you. So is everybody. It's how we're designed.

Spirit is 'built in' to the human person. (Catechism, 363) And because it's animated by a spiritual soul, the human body "shares in the dignity of 'the image of God': it is a human body precisely because it is animated by a spiritual soul...." (Catechism, 364)

And, 'spiritual' or not, I'm still an animal. It's the way God made me: so I'm not going to complain.

Related posts:
"Hippies, Prudes, Catholics, and Sex"
(August 30, 2011)"Or, sex isn't a four-letter word."

"Hummingbirds, Deuteronomy, Morality, and Getting a Grip"
(August 13, 2011)
"God, Genesis, the Catholic Church, and Getting a Grip"
(June 22, 2011)
"Archaeology Paleontology, Science, and Wishful Thinking"
(October 12, 2010)
"Animals: Yeah, the Catholic Church has Rules About Them, Too"
(August 17, 2009)
Background:"Letter of His Holiness John Paul II to All the Priests on the Occasion of Holy Thursday 1979"
(April 8, 1979)
"Saint Augustine of Hippo (1)"
Pope Benedict XVI, General Audience (January 9, 2008)
Catechism of the Catholic Church (1992)Light and darkness in Dualism and Manichaeism, 285
God creates a good an ordered world (299)
God could have created a world that was perfect, and stayed that wayHe didn't
"...God freely willed to create a world 'in a state of journeying' toward its ultimate perfection....," 310


"Dualism"
Catholic Encyclopedia (1909)
"Gnosticism"
Catholic Encyclopedia (1909)
"Manichæism"
Catholic Encyclopedia (1910)

1 Don't get me wrong: 'spirituality' is okay. I've gone over sense, nonsense, common sense, and spirituality before:"Rambling About What 'Spirit' Means"
(February 22, 2011)
"Faith With a Cold"
(October 18, 2010)
"Asceticism: Seeing Past Some Skinny Guy Screaming on a Pillar"
(August 21, 2010)
"Visits From Dead People, Cultural Assumptions, and Twitter"
(April 24, 2010)
""If you must see ghosts ..." Materialism, Being Spiritual, and Uncle Deadly"
(December 18, 2009)






Hippies, Prudes, Catholics, and Sex


Posted: 2011-08-31 22:48:36 UTC-05:00
Or, Sex Isn't a Four-Letter Word.

It's hard to ignore sex completely, although I suppose it could be done. Sexuality is part of being human: the basic coding is there, as soon as DNA strands come together in a fertilized egg. X and Y chromosomes, and all that.

Folks can have quite a few attitudes toward sex, including these:
Low responsibility, high fun'Free love, baby!''It's been fun, gotta go'

Feels good in the short term
IgnoresSubtle consequences
Not-so-subtle consequences


High responsibility, low fun'Yecch!''One does what one must'

Feels good in the short termFor those who enjoy feelingSelf-righteous
Grim

IgnoresSubtle consequences
Not-so-subtle consequences



High responsibility, lasting fun"God blessed them, saying, 'Be fertile, multiply....' "
(Genesis 1:28)"God blessed them, saying, 'Be fertile, multiply....' "
(Genesis 1:22)I'll get back to that


Feels good in the short termExcept when it doesn'tPleasant feelings don't lastNeither do unpleasant feelings

Change happens


IgnoresPressureSocial
Psychological
Hormonal

Desires for self-gratification


A caricature of the situation? Simplified? Of course.
Why Pick on Hippies?"Hippies, Prudes, Catholics, and Sex" isn't quite what this post is about: but it's close. It's not that I'm sloppy about picking titles. Not for the most part, anyway, and that's another topic.1

Hippies weren't the only folks who decided to take a vacation from cause and effect. Or try, anyway. But now, a half-century later, "Hippy" is a fairly common term that most Americans associate with a particular set of choices.

And It's shorter than "a person ... who rejected established institutions and values and sought spontaneity, direct personal relations expressing love...." (Dictionary.com) Seriously: titles like that could put a person to sleep. Or, worse, bore a potential reader.

As for wanting spontaneity, and rejecting established institutions? That's not necessarily a bad thing.

I grew up in the '60's, and saw huge problems with America's "established institutions." So I converted to Catholicism?!

Bucking the system doesn't have to involve love beads and incense. Come to think of it, though: I wear a chaplet around my neck, and incense is a routine part of Mass.

Still more topics.2Why Pick on Prudes?Prude: "A person who is or tries to be excessively proper, especially one who is easily offended by matters of a sexual nature." (Wiktionary)

I don't think much of prudery. But I don't 'hate' prudes, or anybody else. I try very hard not to, anyway. Hating people is against the rules. Yet another topic.3

As for being easily offended - I think many old-school American Christians made the mistake of assuming that their wardrobe preferences were God's unchanging dress code.4 And I'm getting off-topic.

Or maybe not so much.Gloomily Grim for God?I take my faith very seriously. Or, more accurately, I take my Lord very seriously. But that doesn't mean I think I should be conventionally 'spiritual,' and go around looking grim. 5

Sure, there's a time for being solemn. Like when the Man who was killed but didn't stay dead shows up in person. And that's yet again another topic.6

Not everyone who seems to feel that 'gloominess is next to Godliness' is of the "God Hates You" ilk.


(Reuters photo, via FoxNews.com, used w/o permission)
These are not, in my considered opinion, typical Christians.
(June 14, 2011)

Outfits like Jim Phelp's little band aren't even representative of American Protestantism. They are, however, loud: and colorful enough to get on the news from time to time.

It's little wonder that some folks get wrong ideas. Like:The Catholic Church says some things are bad for people
(True)Examples include:Homosexual practices
Suicide
Rape
Drub abuse


Therefore Catholics are taught to hateHomosexuals
Suicides
Rapists
Drug addicts
(False)We're not allowed to hate anybody"Hating People? Not an Option"
(December 9, 2010)


It may sound corny, but it's a matter of 'hate the sin, love the sinner.' Which is the principle behind those 'friends don't let friends drive drunk' ads. And those 'repressive' rules the Church has about being human. (April 26, 2011)Sex, Electricity, and Common SenseSex is great. So is electricity.  But there's a reason that we keep live wires covered, and won't let children poke things in electrical outlets. We're not trying to keep the kids from having fun: we're trying to keep them alive until they develop 'common sense.' Which sometimes seems to be uncommon. Still more topics.  A short, incomplete, list of what the Catholic Church has to say about sex:Sex is good (Catechism of the Catholic Church, 2331-2336)
Lust is a disorder (Catechism of the Catholic Church, 2351)
Sex is special (Catechism, 2348-2350)
Rape is bad (Catechism, 2356)
"God Blessed Them"Oops. I said I'd get back to "God blessed them, saying, 'Be fertile, multiply....' " (Genesis 1:22) I'll have to put that off until tomorrow. It's getting late, and I need sleep: which ties in with what I had to say about that quote. Lots more topics.  Related posts:    "New York State Senate Okays Same-Sex Marriage: My Take"
(June 25, 2011)
"Sex Isn't a Product for Consumption?"
(June 8, 2011)
"Love, Capital Sins, and Being Catholic"
(May 23, 2011)
"No Open Season on Transgendered People, Please!"
(April 26, 2011)
Particularly""Love" isn't "Approval"
Sex, People, and Rules

"Legalized Rape, Brightly Burning Bras, and Fitting In"
(May 8, 2010)
1 The idea is to get your attention with a title that gives a general idea of the post's topics. I figure a short title is generally better. You can get details by reading the post.  I try to give posts titles that: Have something to do with the post
Are fairly shortAn old rule of thumb is to keep headlines under eight wordsOther thanPrepositions
Conjunctions



Get your attentionAt least aren't Boring
Unimaginative
Like a thousand other headlines


2 "Hippie" is often used as a generic term for someone who's obviously counter-cultural. Like me. Except I'm not. A hippie, that is:"Being Counter-Cultural: I am Not Now, Nor Have I Ever Been, a Hippie"
(January 12, 2010)
3 You may have run into a Catholic who hated someone: but that's against the rules:"It's 'Love Your Neighbor,' Not 'Alienate Your Neighbor' "
(August 8, 2011)
"Loving Neighbors: No Matter What"
(May 10, 2011)
"Hating People? Not an Option"
(December 9, 2010)
"Rules, the Catholic Church, Neighbors and Me"
(June 18, 2010)
It's another specific instance of what's in Matthew 22:36-40.  4 The admonition in Deuteronomy is against men dressing as women or vice versa: Not that the dress code of America, 1950 A.D., was God's unchanging rule for how men and women should dress."Are You a Boy, or Are You a Girl?"
(September 26, 2009)
ParticularlyTime Passes, Change Happens
Culture, Common Sense, and the "Effete" Practice of Men Growing BeardsYou can't make this stuff up, folks

Change Happens: Deal With It 

5x With spectacular exceptions, like some Southern Baptists, quite a few Americans who are Christians and take their faith seriously are - serious. Terribly, unrelentingly, unsmilingly, doggedly serious. 'Serious' can be good, but I don't think it's the whole picture:"Christianity: A Religion of Hope"
(May 5, 2011)
Particularly'Gloominess is Next to Godliness?'
6 "Corpus Christi, and Running into Walls"
(June 26, 2011)






What Hurricane Irene Doesn't Mean, and Prayer


Posted: 2011-08-30 01:19:58 UTC-05:00
First, about this post's title: "What Hurricane Irene Doesn't Mean...."

I've got opinions about Hurricane Irene, but I also have the teaching authority of "some guy with a blog." I don't speak for the Catholic Church.

Still, I'm pretty confident about this:Hurricane Irene Wasn't God Getting Even With Those Sinners Over ThereI could be wrong about that. Maybe God decided that about three dozen people had to get killed, becauseHe doesn't approve of New York City's Urban Fellows Program
The Orange Riots were unforgivable
I really don't think so - but I suppose it's possible.

It's not so much the 14 decades that's gone by since those riots that makes me think that Hurricane Irene isn't some sort of vindictive divine payback.

It's the sort of petty viciousness I associate with assuming that God kills people because He's peeved about something their ancestors did. That doesn't seem like a good fit with God the merciful and righteous, source of all truth, good and love. Still, He's been known to get rough with us.1

As far as I know, nobody's said that Hurricane Irene was the righteous wrath of an angry God - punishing sinners in big east coast cities. Not that I've looked for the sort of thoughtless statements celebrities made after recent earthquakes in Haiti and Japan.2 And I'm getting a little off-topic.

Oddly, I also think that - - -God Sent Hurricane IreneSince I'm a Catholic, I have to believe that divine providence exists: the idea that God runs the universe in a very hands-on way. It makes sense, but taking divine providence seriously also forced me to let go of the 'clockwork' model of creation.3

I think this is a pretty good super-short summary of what the Catholic Church has about divine providence. The basics, anyway:GodCares about His creationFrom the smallest detail to the largest events

Does what He wantsRegardless of whether it fits our plans
(Catechism of the Catholic Church, 303)

There's more, including:Jesus told us toTrust God
Not be anxious about what weNeed
Want
(Catechism, 305)

Providence andSecondary causes (Catechism, 306-308)
The scandal of evil (Catechism, 309-314

I don't have much of a problem with assuming that God set Hurricane Irene up the east coast of the United States. What I won't do is assume that the storm is the righteous wrath of a tame God, smiting folks who don't agree with me.4 There's that Matthew 7:1-5 thing for starters.

I think it's safe to assume that God had a reason for arranging weather conditions over the weekend. I also suspect that I couldn't understand His motives. God's God, I'm not.

However, I also think a little speculation won't hurt. First, though:Hurricane Irene: Prayer Couldn't HurtSo far, about three dozen folks near the east coast died as a result of Hurricane Irene. I think it'd be a good idea to pray for their families and friends - and for the victims.About PrayerI think prayer is a good idea: whether it's a quick 'please help me stay calm;' or a nine-day sequence of structured prayers and meditations.

The Catechism of the Catholic Church is a pretty good place to start learning what the Catholic Church says about prayer:PrayerIsn't just an impulsive outburst
Is a learned skillTaught by the Holy Spirit
(Catechism of the Catholic Church, 2650-2651)

There's more, of course: Catechism of the Catholic Church, 2650-2660, for a start.Hurricane Irene: Opportunity for Prayer and Charity?This is just speculation, but I've wondered if maybe one of God's reasons for the east coast's wild weather is educational. Americans have an opportunity here to pray - and offer help to folks affected by the storm.

It's just speculation, of course.

Related posts: "Lemming Tracks: Hurricane Irene and Getting a Grip"
Apathetic Lemming of the North (August 26, 2011)
"Irene, New York City, and Altruism as Enlightened Self-Interest"
(August 26, 2011)
"Prayer, Rules, a Saint, and Lent"
(February 25, 2011)
"Saving the Planet, Saving Haitians"
(September 1, 2010)
"Haiti: Voodoo, Pat Robertson, and the Catholic Church"
(January 16, 2010)
News and views: "Irene 'just devastating' in Vermont, governor says"
CNN (August 29, 2011)
"Top Stories"
WBFF Baltimore Maryland (8:54 PM EDT August 29, 2011)
"UPDATE 8-Vermont, New Jersey flooded as Irene spares NYC"
Edition: U.S., Reuters (August 29, 2011)
"A day after Irene, Mass. assesses damage"
STEPHEN DOCKERY, Associated Press, Houston Chronicle/Chron.com (August 29, 2011)
"New Irene death toll: 35 killed by the destructive storm"
Nation Now, blog, Los Angeles Times (August 29, 2011)
"Irene's Damage Likely to Lead to Higher Insurance Premiums"
Associated Press, via FoxNews.com (August 29, 2011)
"Top Stories"
WBFF Baltimore Maryland (7:52 PM EDT August 29, 2011)
"Flooding an ongoing concern amid Irene's destruction"
CNN (August 29, 2011)
"Utilities Restore Power to 1.57M After Irene"
(August 29, 2011)
1 There's more to God than this sort of thing:"7 As he looked down toward Sodom and Gomorrah and the whole region of the Plain, he saw dense smoke over the land rising like fumes from a furnace." (Genesis 19:28)On the other hand, seeing God only as a nice, inoffensive chap who doesn't do much except smile and tell people how well they're doing: isn't, I think, a good idea. Fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom (Proverbs 1:7) It isn't, I think, the end: but I also think it's a good place to start.Genesis 19:1-28
Exodus 14:8-28
"Angelus"
Pope Benedict XVI (June 22, 2008)
2 There seems to be something about major disasters that brings out the cluelessness in folks:"Japan's Earthquake, Divine Retribution, and the Tower at Siloam"
(March 15, 2011)
"Japan, Good Taste, Common Sense, and a Duck"
(March 15, 2011)
"Haiti: Voodoo, Pat Robertson, and the Catholic Church"
(January 16, 2010)
3 The notion that God created the universe, wound it up, and let it run on its own, allowed me to sidestep questions about the existence of evil. That 'clockwork universe' notion wasn't easy to let go:"'Cafeteria Catholics' and a Diverse Church"
(June 8, 2009)
ParticularlyThe Nature of the Universe: Also a Big Deal
"Cafeteria Catholics:" Not Necessarily Liberal

4 Minnesota is so far north, it isn't even a 'flyover state.' Not for folks whose world exists in Washington, D.C., New York City, Los Angeles, and San Francisco.

Too many folks seem to have the 'anything I don't know, isn't important' attitude. That can be annoying or amusing, or a bit frightening: depending on whether the ignoramus is obnoxious, harmless, or a prominent member of society. I've gotten the impression, now and again, that a fair number of America's leaders don't realize that Green Acres is fiction.

Then there's the tendency to assume that folks in your neighborhood, and near your office, are 'normal:' and that anyone who's not like your little group - isn't.

I've discussed parochialism, The New York Times, and assumptions about New York City's home town paper, mostly in another blog:"The News and Palin, Kennedy, Iraq, Lebanon, Hamas: They Just Don't Get It"
Another War-on-Terror Blog (January 9, 2009)ParticularlyEnd Times! Bulwark of Democracy Crumbling!Not really


Change is Coming: Deal With It
Who's 'Killing The New York Times?!'
Sloppy Procedure, Unconsidered Assumptions: That's No Way to Run a Paper
It's Not Just The New York Times

"The New York Times, Insularity, and Assumptions"
Another War-on-Terror Blog (October 21, 2008)
It's a long post, even by my standards:The New York Times: A Fine Old Family Business
The New York Times and the News: You Can't Please Everybody
Make a Few Little Mistakes... Embarrassments at The New York Times Famine? What Famine? 
Nazi, Schmazi, I'm Not Biased 
We Can't Criticize Him, He's, Well, You Know 
She Wrote WHAT?! 

'All the News We Feel Like Printing' 
From the Pier-Bound Shores of Chelsea to the Austere Grandeur... 







22nd Sunday in Ordinary Time 2011


Posted: 2011-09-05 19:45:18 UTC-05:00
Readings for August 28, 2011, 22nd Sunday in Ordinary Time:
Jeremiah 20:7-9
Romans 12:1-2
Matthew 16:21-27
Trinity Sunday 2011
By Deacon Lawrence N. Kaas
August 28, 2011We will hear from time to time that here in America one can be whatever you want if you really try. "Any child born in America can be President." Hard work and honest effort will be rewarded. Often the more subtle message is that rewards are the only reason for hard work and honest effort. The reward motive is securely rooted in the national psyche.

So you can say that, that makes a lot of sense and I suppose that is also the reason many are attracted to religion more then anything else. To avoid hell and to be assured of heaven is a great inducement to consider the teaching of the Apostles. Then consider some of our TV evangelist who seem to have not a problem in appealing directly to the poor and the sick, not to mention the greedy, With bold assurances that they will receive precisely what they want. But don't you agree that there is something inconsistent, if not fraudulent, in inviting people to follow the Loving and Suffering Savior for what they can get out of it!

So it should not surprise us that once in a while some one gets it. Lewis Smedes, of Fuller Seminary in California, has written about his own reservations about this practice. "My problem was," he wrote, "touting miraculous healings as signals of God's power and God's desire to heal our suffering in a world chock-full of suffering that never comes close to getting healed. It was a feeling I could not shake ... about the fittingness, even the decency, of celebrating far and wide the miraculous healing of a relatively few ailments within a world endemically infected by enormous intractable, unalleviated suffering. It felt to me like proclaiming that God is alive and well .. because you survived an airplane crash in which everyone perished." He goes on to say, "I think we should see miraculous healings not as a way of solving human suffering, but as whimsical signals -- not made too much of, but signals -- that God is alive, that Christ is Lord, and that suffering is not the last word about the human condition." 
These remarks of Lewis' deserve careful and thoughtful consideration.

Then consider how simply Jesus recruited His followers. He was walking along the sea shore and called fishermen to follow Him, and they did. Was Jesus mesmerizing them? Probably more then any thing else they had at least heard about Him. And from what we can glen from scripture they along with many had hopes of a grassroots revolution to rid the country of Rome rule. To join Him might mean helping restore the nation of Israel to its once proud status in the world. It was not what Jesus said, but what they heard that made them such enthusiastic followers. Their eyes were full of stars, these simple fishermen, and their hearts full of dreams. They had every reason to follow Him, including God and country. They didn't ask about rewards, they were so certain the rewards would come. It is obvious at the end that they had not anticipated His death. much less His simple acquiescence and acceptance of it. Whatever rewards they were expecting, they were utterly disappointed. It took the Resurrection, the post-Resurrection appearances of Jesus, and Pentecost to begin to set them straight. 

How true it is that we tend to hear what we want to hear. Jesus had done the best He could to prepare the disciples for what was coming. When Jesus began to talk to them about it, Peter took Him aside and said such things would never happen. Jesus responded angrily, and said that Peter was not on the side of God. This led to some of Jesus' most memorable and important words, both for the disciples and for us. He explained what following Him would mean. His words were clear enough for anyone to understand. Deny Yourselves. Take up you crosses and follow Me. Give away your life for my sake, and find true life in God. 

They could not really hear it, because they could not believe it. The question is, are we really any different? 

We redeem the reward motive by our own unqualified commitment to Jesus Christ. We are to come to Him primarily because of His unique and compelling worth. Christ is not a deal-maker; neither does He entice us. He invites us to become a part of His mission, not for our own self-aggrandizement, but to help Him realize God's purpose in the world. Any "rewards" come as a by-product of this commitment.

Jesus never promised happiness, but He had a lot to say about it. Happy are the poor in spirit. Happy are the sorrowing. Happy are the meek, the humbly trusting. Happy are those who hunger and thirst for goodness. Do any of us really need more rewards than these. All of this is given us along with the greatest gift of all that is Eternal Life given us in Baptism and Jesus Himself in Holy Communion. How can any human being deserve more then that!'Thank you' to Deacon Kaas, for letting me post his reflection here.
More reflections: 
"Reflections from Sauk Centre's Our Lady of Angels Church"
Somewhat-related posts:
"An Eternal Life I can Live With"
(August 27, 2011)
"Living as if God Matters"
(June 12, 2011)
"Lourdes, Daft Comments, and Thinking of Something to Say"
(August 18, 2010)
"Death, Judgment, Heaven, Hell, and Warm Fuzzies"
(August 8, 2010)
"Miracles, Mass, Bread and Wine"
(June 7, 2010)






An Eternal Life I can Live With


Posted: 2011-08-28 00:29:41 UTC-05:00
I will live forever. So will you.

As I've mentioned before, that's a sort of 'good news, bad news' thing. (Catechism of the Catholic Church, 988-1014) I'm talking about resurrection, by the way, which isn't reincarnation. My life, and particular judgment, is my one shot at a desirable eternal life. (Catechism, 1013, 1021)

The criteria, by the way, is faith and works. That's 'and,' not 'or.' (Catechism, 1021) I've gone over faith, works, particular judgment, and getting a grip, before. ("Death, Judgment, Heaven, Hell, and Warm Fuzzies," (August 8, 2010)) Also the disclaimer that I've got the authority of "some guy with a blog."
Who Said I'll Live Forever?'I read it in the Bible' says why I believe that I'll have eternal life: partly. (Daniel 12: 2; John 5:26-29)

I've opined about the 'dark side' of Bible study before. Also why I think it's a good thing to have the Bible, Tradition, and the Magisterium for guidance.
Live Forever? How?My Lord spelled out what it was that gave eternal life: or, rather, Who. (John 6:53-59) About two millennia later, folks still say, in effect, "...'This saying is hard; who can accept it?.'" (John 6:60)

As a convert, I found the Eucharist hard to swallow: figuratively speaking. The Catechism of the Catholic Church explains - in part. (Catechism, 1322-1419) I've read that section, and more: and still don't fully understand the Eucharist, transubstantiation, or exactly how the Sacrifice on the Cross works. I don't expect to.

God's God, I'm not, and that's another topic.
Why Live Forever?Someone who's in reasonably good health, isn't facing some crisis, and doesn't foresee troubles, could reasonably want to keep on keeping on indefinitely. I've been in that position. I've also experienced times when an unending extension of the present was very sincerely not what I wanted.

I've also wondered, fairly often, exactly why I exist. The simple answer is that I have the same purpose as every other human being. I'm here to seek God, to know Him, and to love Him. (Catechism, 1) Happily, God loves each of us, and made knowing Him possible. (Catechism, 68-73)

God also wants us to live forever. (Catechism, 55) Again, we need God for that. (Catechism, 1998) And we need to recognize God "as the supreme Good and the source of all good." (Catechism, 2052)

There's more to it, of course: Catechism, 1020-1065, for starters.
Uncertainty?Some painfully 'religious' folks give me the impression that they believe:
Someone who 'really' believes has absolute certainty aboutTheir own salvation
God
Anything else important

Lack of absolute certainty isA sign of Satan
An attack on their faith

Again, that's just my impression. Judging them is a sort of trouble I don't need. (Matthew 7:1-5)

I've decided that God knows more than I do, and is smarter than I am. Sounds obvious, putting it like that. I've written about "Uncertainty, 'Being Religious,' and This Catholic" before. (February 12, 2011)
It Ain't Over 'Til It's OverI hope to spend the vast bulk of my life in my Lord's kingdom. Actually getting there depends on whether I want to enter Heaven when I face my Lord. I can't be absolutely sure that I'll make a sensible choice.

It's not because I don't 'really believe.' It's because I have free will. (Catechism, 1730-1742, for starters)

I could, in principle, tell my Lord that I'd rather cling to some petty grievance, than enjoy an eternity with God. I think that'd be a stupid decision: but that doesn't make it impossible.
Harps, Halos, and HeavenI know what Heaven is 'supposed' to look like - according to American cartoons of the 20th century.

Show an American a pastel cloudscape, where people wear white robes, have wings, and sport a halo and harp as wardrobe accessories - I think most folks will recognize "Heaven." Or, rather, a conventional representation of Heaven.

Restful vistas aside, the place looks dull. For starters, those harps don't look like they've got much sounding range.

Seriously, I don't think there's much point in trying to guess what Heaven will look like. Much less what I'll be doing when - God willing - I get there. I wouldn't mind if "singing God's praise" was literally what happened. I've sung in choirs, and would enjoy being able to keep singing: without dealing with vocal cords that need rest periodically.

Or maybe my place will involve using my knack for scrabbling through piles of data, in search of some nugget of knowledge.

Bottom line, though: I have no clue about what Heaven will be like. Happily, I can trust God to take care of details there.
Mercy!Finally, my plan is to keep working at conforming my will to God's. That, and ask for my Lord's mercy when we meet.

And that's another topic. Topics.

Related posts: 
"Thinking About Osama bin Laden, and What Father Lombardi Said"
(May 2, 2011)
"Rambling About What 'Spirit' Means"
(February 22, 2011)
"Natural Moral Law, Catholicism, Karma, and the Tea Party"
(October 16, 2010)
"Death, Judgment, Heaven, Hell, and Warm Fuzzies"
(August 8, 2010)
"Catholics Invented Transubstantiation Like Newton Invented Gravity"
(September 21, 2009)






Irene, New York City, and Altruism as Enlightened Self-Interest


Posted: 2011-08-26 23:19:50 UTC-05:00
What with weather satellites, ground-based radar, pretty-good communications, and increasingly sophisticated forecasting software, folks in places like America's east coast aren't likely to get surprised by a hurricane. Not if they're paying attention.

That's good, because Hurricane Irene is headed their way.

New York City is being evacuated - the low-lying parts, anyway. Odds are pretty good that skyscrapers built during the last several decades will get a stress test. If Irene hits, they'll get hit with high winds, hail, and low-flying pieces of other buildings.

Folks living along the rest of the coast are getting ready, too.
Disaster Preparedness #1 - Don't Act StupidI've seen quite a few 'how to prepare for a hurricane' lists, most of them going over pretty much the same common-sense points. An item I don't often notice is 'be somewhere else.'

Those lists tend to focus on short-term planning, like:
Take anything that's loose inside
board up the windows
Get a portable coolerAnd lots of ice

Be ready to throw out food that didn't stay refrigerated
I'm no 'expert,' by the way: so consider this the usual disclaimer about doing your own research and not acting stupid.
Disaster Preparedness #2 - Build SmartI'll suggest a longer-term strategy, based on the way we build in rural Minnesota and the Dakotas. Folks building near the coast could consider designing buildings so they'll stay safe during 150 mile-an-hour winds, water coming 25 or so feet above normal high tide, plus 30-foot waves. During a Richter 5.0 quake. Remember the 5.8 quake in Virginia earlier this week?

We don't have weather like that here in Minnesota: no ocean to have tides, for starters. We do, though, have blizzards: and learned that it's prudent to build sheds, barns, and houses so they'll survive one.
Disaster Preparedness #3 - Get Ready to HelpEven with the best preparation: If Irene hits places like New York City, some folks will need help after it's done. So will folks elsewhere, like North Caronlina:
"North Carolina Catholics prepare for Hurricane Irene's wake"
Kevin J. Jones, CNA (Catholic News Agency) (August 26, 2011)

"Catholics in North Carolina are preparing to respond to the aftermath of Hurricane Irene.

" 'There is a great deal of praying going on right now,' Frank Morock, communications director of the Catholic Diocese of Raleigh, told CNA on the afternoon of Aug. 26.

"People are praying that the storm 'picks up speed so it moves out of the state quickly then out to sea away from the eastern metropolises.'..."Gear up for emergency relief, pray that city folks won't have to deal with heavy weather? Sounds like a plan to me.Disaster Preparedness #4 - PrayI've said this before, too: I think prayer is important. I also think being 'practical' is important.

I don't see that as an 'either-or.' More like a 'both-and.'

One thing prayer isn't, or shouldn't be, in my opinion, is telling God what you want to get: treating the Almighty like a generous, and none-too-bright, rich uncle. I haven't run into the 'prosperity gospel' recently, for which I'm grateful: but something like it will probably pop up again. And that's another topic.

Here's a start on what the Catholic Church says about prayer:Prayer in the Christian Life (2558-2565)
The Life of Prayer (2697-2724)Vocal Prayer (2700-2704)
Meditation (2705-2708)
Contemplative Prayer (2709-2719)

The Lord's Prayer / "Our Father!" (2759-2776)
(Catechism)
(from (May 25, 2011))Helping Those in Need: What's In It For Me?Major relief agencies in America, like CRS, Catholic Relief Services, often focus on helping folks in other countries. I think part of that is because most folks in this country are so comparatively affluent, that we can take care of local and regional relief - locally and regionally. I've been over this before:
"Drought, Ethiopia, Texas, and Charity"
(August 9, 2011)
As for why someone should help folks who need it, I see two really good reasons:It's the right thing to doPopulorum Progressio
Encyclical of Pope Paul VI on the Development of Peoples (March 26, 1967)
Catechism of the Catholic Church, 2443-2449

The alternative has unpleasant consequencesMathew 25:35-45

As I've said before: when you consider the alternatives, "altruism" seems more like "enlightened self-interest."

Related posts:
"Virginia Earthquake: Cracked Cathedral, No Deaths, Frustrating 911 System"
(August 24, 2011)
"Joplin, Missouri, Tornado: Charity Opportunity; Prayer; and Common Sense"
(May 25, 2011)
"Charity, Nuns, and an Overloaded Helicopter"
(April 28, 2011)
"Japan, Good Taste, Common Sense, and a Duck"
(March 15, 2011)
"Not Hopeless, Not Helpless: Haiti, the News, and a Reality Check"
(December 21, 2010)
In the news:
"North Carolina Catholics prepare for Hurricane Irene's wake"
Kevin J. Jones, CNA (Catholic News Agency) (August 26, 2011)
"Hurricane Irene: Obama warns of 'historic' storm"
BBC News US & Canada (August 26, 2011)
"Hurricane Irene: New York issues evacuation orders"
BBC News US & Canada (August 26, 2011)
Background:
"Hurricane Preparedness"
National Hurricane Center, NOAA
"Frequently Asked Questions"
Hurricane Research Division, NOAA
"Most Extreme Cyclones"
Hurricane Research Division, NOAA






Two Thousand Years of the Great Commission, and Some Guy With a Blog


Posted: 2011-08-26 18:55:05 UTC-05:00
America's next presidential election is more than a year away. Campaigns have been going for a while, and so has news coverage.

At this rate, we may get to a point where campaigns for an election four or five years off will be going full blast when polls open each November. Can't say I'd like to see that. There's enough vitriol dripping off news, op-ed pages, and blogs, to eat through copper. At least it feels like it.

There are times when I feel like forgetting about elections, issues, and particularly the tunnel-vision partisans who cling to campaigns like barnacles to a ship. Being 'above mundane affairs' isn't an option for me, since I'm a practicing Catholic.

We're expected to "take an active part in public life." (Catechism of the Catholic Church, 19151) Since America is a country where citizens can vote, I can't ignore the candidates.
The Great CommissionAbout two thousand years back, my Lord gave an order that we've come to call the great commission:
"16 f The eleven* disciples went to Galilee, to the mountain to which Jesus had ordered them.
"17* When they saw him, they worshiped, but they doubted.
"18* g Then Jesus approached and said to them, 'All power in heaven and on earth has been given to me.
"19h Go, therefore,* and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the holy Spirit,
"20i teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you.* And behold, I am with you always, until the end of the age.' "
(Matthew 28:16-20)I think one reason the eleven worked so hard at making "disciples of all nations" is that Jesus of Nazareth had been tortured to death before giving those orders: and then stopped being dead. Which is another topic.

Or maybe not so much. A few minutes, or years, or decades, from now I'll be getting some serious personal time with my Lord. We call it the particular judgment, and it's when I get to find out how good a follower I've been. Catechism of the Catholic Church, 1021-1022) I plan to throw myself on my Lord's mercy, and hope for the best.

I don't think I can 'work my way into heaven,' but I'm certain that what I do - and don't do - matters. (Catechism, 1021)
A Millennia-Spanning Mandate, and Some Guy With a BlogOne of my high-priority tasks is to do my part in that "disciples of all nations" thing. Sure, I'm only about 1/1,000,000,000th of the Church currently in the world, and I can only reach folks I know - and anyone reading this blog. It's not "all nations," but it's a start.

Don't worry, by the way: I'm not going to go full-bore blowhard evangelical on you. I've tangled with folks who use Christianity as a blunt instrument - who indirectly encouraged my conversion to Catholicism.

Getting back to the great commission, presidential elections, and me.

I've written about political issues that I think are important before: like whether or not it's good public policy to kill people who aren't up to spec. I don't think so, partly because of what the Church says. (Catechism, 2277) I plan to keep doing that.

But I don't intend to call anyone who doesn't agree with me a heretical mush-brained spawn of Satan. Ethical and theological considerations aside, I think that'd be a daft way to make my views seem reasonable.

Besides, I've got the full authority of "some guy with a blog," and take Matthew 7:1 seriously.

I think:
It's a mistake to'Be polite' and not contradict nonsense spouted by the nation's self-appointed best and brightest
Emulate folks who yell 'racist!' or 'commie!' whenever someone disagrees with them

Life-and-death issues are at stake in next year's election
Individuals matterTo each individual, anyway

I'll be held accountable for my actionsJust like everybody else
I've got enough trouble, without adding slander to the list
(Catechism, 2477)

The great commission hasn't been rescindedActing like a jerk isn't good 'discipleship'
'Religious people are unreasonable' is a fairly common stereotypeLiving down to it won't encourage anyone to take my faith seriously

Abrasively-religious Christians make an impressionThat needs to be corrected


We're called to love our neighborNot abuse our neighbor

It might be easier to either let fly with expletives over the shenanigans of my 'betters;' or to be primly pious, posting a pithy platitude each day. But I don't want either up for review at my particular judgment.

Not when I'm pretty sure that I can make at least a small difference by taking time to think - and sharing what I come up with.

Related posts:
"It's 'Love Your Neighbor,' Not 'Alienate Your Neighbor' "
(August 8, 2011)
"Hell, Heaven, Character, and Culture"
(June 23, 2011)
"Wheat, Weeds, and a Tax Collector"
(July 27, 2010)
"Some Catholic Blogs Bother Bishops - A Lot"
(June 17, 2010)
"Those Heretics May Not Like being Called Heretics"
(May 16, 2010)
1 There's quite a bit in the Catechism about citizenship, including this selection:
Catechism of the Catholic Church onCitizens and public life (1915)
Duties of those with authority over others (2199)
Duties of citizens (2238-43, 2255)







Virginia Earthquake: Cracked Cathedral, No Deaths, Frustrating 911 System


Posted: 2011-08-26 18:44:10 UTC-05:00
First, the good news.

As far as I've read, nobody was killed in Virginia's 5.8 earthquake yesterday afternoon. Sounds like there weren't even serious injuries.

Now, the bad news.

Folks in America's northeast were shaken up, literally and figuratively; property damage is worse than officials first thought it was, and the 911 emergency system still can't handle a lot of calls at the same time.

Still, as we say here in Minnesota, it could be worse.
What's so Spiritual About an Earthquake?I suppose the obviously 'religious' angle on yesterday's earthquake is damage to places of worship. One of the high-profile buildings hit was the Washington National Cathedral.

There's a sane, reasonable way to look at a cracked cathedral. I'll get to that after the next heading. I can think of some not-so-sane ways to look at the earthquake, too.

Another 'religious' angle on the earthquake is to thank God - literally - that nobody got hurt. Between falling spires and scrambled schools, it's a wonder we're not looking at body counts. I took a little time out for a quick prayer of thanks - like I've said before, it can't hurt.

A not-so-obviously faith-related aspect of the quake is what it showed about the emergency response system. Seriously, folks, we can't keep hoping that:
We won't really need 911 in an emergency
Or, if we doMassive disasters willPace themselves decentlyWith plenty of time between each step


Only one person will call 911 for each emergency

I'll get back to that.
Washington National Cathedral Closed for RepairsThe Washington National Cathedral says they'll be closed until August 27. The Martin Luther King prayer service will be at the National Shrine. I'm assuming that's the Basilica of the National Shrine of the Immaculate Conception, Washington, D.C., but I could be wrong: it'd be best to check locally, if you plan to be there.
Cracks in the National CathedralThe Washington National Cathedral is still standing - but it's damaged. The Houston Chronicle says three of the tower's four spires broke off, and some of the flying buttresses have cracks.

It'll take millions of dollars to fix the damage. Despite the name, the Washington National Cathedral isn't part of the federal government. It's not supported by taxes. So, like they say on their website:
"Today, we need your help to restore this majestic landmark. Please give today to join the efforts of preserving this national treasure."
("Cathedral Shaken by Earthquake" - Help Repair the Cathedral - Washington National Cathedral)I had to read the headlines twice before I got it clear which of Washington's "national" Catholic places of worship got hit badly. There are two with names that sound sort of alike. To me, anyway:
Washington National Cathedral
Basilica of the National Shrine of the Immaculate Conception, Washington, D.C.
No State ChurchI'm not criticizing the name, but "Washington National Cathedral" might sound like 'evidence' that there's some kinda plot to start a state religion.

Maybe it's my biases talking but I suspect that folks with either of two apparently-unlike attitudes might get the wrong idea about the National Cathedral. Think about it: both the rabidly anti-Catholic 'death cookie' preachers, and the folks who have conniptions each time they see "God" in print, want to protect America from 'those Catholics.'

In both cases, I suppose they think they're justified: the one lot apparently assumes that anything they don't like is Satanic; the other seems convinced that the Constitution's first amendment starts with "Congress shall make no law supporting an establishment of religion, or allowing the free exercise thereof...."1 And that's another topic. Topics.Rules and the Catholic CitizenI'm a Catholic. I take my faith seriously. I live in a country where I'm allowed to vote, express my concerns about the government, and even criticize local, state, and national leaders. Most of the time, anyway: we're going through another interesting era just now. More topics.2

There's something to the notion that the Catholic Church has rules about everything:"It is the duty of citizens to work with civil authority for building up society in a spirit of truth, justice, solidarity, and freedom."
(Catechism, 2255)Bottom line: I can't be 'above such mundane things' as how my country works. (Catechism: 1915, 2199, 2238-43, and more)

Which is why I don't think it's out of place to bring up the emergency response system in this blog.911, Citizenship, and Being CatholicI think the '911' emergency system is a good idea: one number that's supposed to be useful for folks with just about any sort of emergency. I remember when it was getting introduced, starting almost a half-century ago.3

I also remember that the '911' system has never worked perfectly. Some accounts made me wonder if maybe equipping everyone with carrier pigeons might be a more swift and effective way of getting help to folks in trouble.

I think one problem the 911 system has is that it:IsHuge
Complicated

InvolvesSeveral government agencies
Technology that hasn't stopped changing

In a way, it's a wonder that 911 works at all.

After the September 11, 2001, attack on the east coast, folks in the northeast were not at all happy about 911 and telephone service in general. Particularly folks who lived and worked in south Manhattan: and weren't killed when quarter-mile-tall skyscrapers came crashing down.

The telephone system was adequate, I gather, pretty much most of the time in the area. Except when a lot of folks decided to use their phones at the same time, or some equipment was on the fritz.

Then airliners hit the New York World Trade Center. Thousands of folks started running out of the building. Others were trapped on floors above the fires. A whole lot more saw what was happening on the skyline: and the communications network got overloaded.

That wasn't supposed to happen again.

Yesterday's earthquake was, it a way, a good live drill for the northeast's emergency response system.

Like I said the good news is that nobody got killed.

Whether you call it luck or providence, I don't think we can count on coming away with a few broken buildings and millions of dollars in repair bills next time. I don't know enough about the situation to know what action makes sense - apart from drawing attention to an inadequate communications system.God Smiting the Unbeliever??Then there's the 'religious wacko' thing.

I haven't heard some preacher saying that a vengeful God has wreaked terrible vengeance on an evil administration - leaving the White House and Congress untouched. Or maybe it'd be a judgment on those Catholics - and high school students in Louisa County, Virginia.

But I haven't been looking for the screwball end of religious expression in this country. A high-profile, expensive, disaster like this ought to be good for at least a few bombastically 'Biblical' bags of balderdash. Which, sadly, a few folks will earnestly believe. Yet again more topics.

Related posts:
"Harold Camping, Family Radio, and Common Sense"
(May 21, 2011)
"Japan, Catholic Relief Services, and Fraternal Sharing"
(March 20, 2011)
"Providence, God's Tender Kindness, and Training a Mule"
(September 24, 2010)
"Archbishop: "Let's Not Forget Haiti" - Works for Me"
(June 9, 2010)
"Haiti: Voodoo, Pat Robertson, and the Catholic Church"
(January 16, 2010)
In the news:
"Officials tour earthquake epicenter"
Michael Sluss, The Roanoke Times (August 24, 2011)
"Quake Exposes Post-9/11 Cracks in Cellphone Coverage, Emergency Response"
Judson Berger, FoxNews.com (August 24, 2011)
"Catholic churches damaged in northeast US quake"
Kevin J. Jones, CNA (Catholic News Agency) (August 24, 2011)
"Cathedral damage means King ceremony to relocate"
Sam Hananel, Associated Press, via Houston Chronicle (August 24, 2011)
Background:
"Magnitude 5.8 - VIRGINIA"
Earthquake Hazards Program, USGS (2011 August 23 17:51:04 UTC)
Washington National CathedralCathedral Shaken by Earthquake

1 The 'Bill of Rights,' as first ratified in 1791, starts this way:"Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances."
(Bill of Rights Transcript Text," archives.gov)There's an interesting discussion of 'the establishment clause' on Cornell's Law School's website:"First Amendment"LII / Legal Information Institute, Cornell University Law School
2 That 'freedom of speech' thing represents an American ideal: one which is followed to a remarkable extent. With exceptions. I remember the trailing edge of McCarthyism, which is one reason I do not want a return to 'the Good Old Days.'

These days another batch of zealots is over-represented (my opinion) in the federal government. I've harangued about that before:""Disagreement" is not 'Treason,' 'Protest' is not 'Terrorism' "
(April 19, 2011)
"'Rush Limbaugh Shot Giffords!?' Opinion Polls, Tuscon, and Loughner's Mind"
(January 12, 2011)
"Reason, Faith and 'What Folks Know, that Just Ain't So' "
(June 4, 2010)
ParticularlyWhat 'Everybody Knows' Ain't Always So

"Home Schooling: It May Not be What You Think"
(May 20, 2010)
"Pro-Life People - 'Domestic Terrorists and Violent Racketeers:' Who Knew?"
(June 1, 2009)
"The Right to Peaceful Assembly: As Long as the Government Approves"
(May 28, 2009)
3 This fellow says he's got "the first accurate, documented history of 911" - and he could be right. What I read agrees pretty much with what I remember:"History of 911"
Dispatch Magazine Online






World Youth Day Madrid, Pope Moved to Tears, Emotions, and Me


Posted: 2011-08-26 18:40:32 UTC-05:00
I'm wrapping up my posting about World Youth Day, Madrid: although I may come back to some of people and events mentioned in the news.

Like this, from yesterday's news:"Cardinal Antonio Maria Rouco Varela of Madrid, Spain recalled that Pope Benedict was 'emotionally moved many times, almost to tears,' during World Youth Day 2011.

"The cardinal said Benedict XVI was especially touched by the theatrical presentation of the Stations of the Cross, which he had initially not planned to attend....

"...The cardinal also encouraged Catholics to re-read the Pope's numerous speeches, which he called a treasure trove of 'preaching, proclamation of the word and explanations to young people' based on the gospels and on the World Youth Day theme. This year's theme was, 'Planted and built up in Jesus Christ, firm in the faith,' taken from St. Paul's letter to the Colossians...."Reading, or re-reading, the Pope's speeches is a whole lot easier these days. I suppose a person could still subscribe to magazines that cover the Pope's statements, and buy books of the collected speeches.

But it's a lot easier, faster, and - this is important for me - less expensive to go to the Vatican's website (www.vatican.va), and read the speeches, homilies, encyclicals, and whatnot, online.

Pope Benedict XVI's homepage is titled, reasonably enough, "Benedict XVI." (www.vatican.va/phome_en.htm)Emotions: Important, but Not the Whole PictureEmotions "are natural components of the human psyche." (Catechism of the Catholic Church, 1764) By themselves, they're not good: and they're not evil, either. What matters is what we decide to do with them. (Catechism, 1767)

There's quite a lot more about emotions, or "passions," as the Catechism calls them. I think a good place to start is Catechism, 1762-1770.

Where was I?

Emotions. They're part of us. They aren't good or bad by themselves: it's what we decide to do with them that makes a difference.

Right.Emotions, Decisions, and the PopeI'm glad to read that the Pope was moved by part of Youth Day Madrid: for his sake, and for the inspiration it may give to folks who attended.

That said, I'm also not all that surprised. The Stations of the Cross, parts of the various do-it-yourself meditations that I've read and followed over the years, get me weeping now and then. That's helped me remember parts of my Lord's suffering and passion: and given me something to think about.

But I don't think I'm 'being religious' when I go through a few facial tissues during Stations of the Cross; and 'not being religious' when I'm studiously tracking down some dry item in the Pentateuch. Emotional and intellectual experiences are both part of my faith - and I trust my reason more than my emotions.

It's getting late, and I've written about emotions and getting a grip before.

Related posts:
Emotions"A Nerdy Interest in God and his Creation?"
(August 12, 2011)
"Becoming Catholic for Reasons, Leaving Because of Feelings"
(August 5, 2010)
"Really 'Spiritual' Experiences: Those are Okay"
(April 22, 2010)
"Dying to Ourselves, Dying to Self: Not Exactly a Feel-Good Religion?"
(March 3, 2009)
"Emotions, the Frontal Cortex, The War on Terror, Anarchists, and the Illuminati"
Another War-on-Terror Blog (December 23, 2008)

Somewhat related to World Youth Day Madrid"World Youth Day Madrid, and Living in an Imperfect World"
(August 19, 2011)
"World Youth Day Madrid: Shocking Extravagance; or Something Else"
(August 17, 2011)
"Religious Freedom, a Spanish Archbishop, and Pew Research"
(August 14, 2011)
"Studying the Bible: Carefully"
(November 16, 2010)
"Pope Benedict XVI's Face on 50-Cent Euro"
(July 24, 2010)

In the news:"Pope 'almost moved to tears' during World Youth Day, says cardinal"
CNA (Catholic News Agency) (August 22, 2011 )
"Pope announces next World Youth Day in Rio de Janeiro"
David Kerr, CNA (Catholic News Agency) (August 21, 2011)
"Pope hears confessions at World Youth Day's 'Forgiveness Festival'"
CNA (Catholic News Agency) (August 20, 2011)
"Pope Benedict XVI defends the dignity of the disabled"
David Kerr, CNA (Catholic News Agency) (August 20, 2011)
"Kenyan father and son made sacrifices to make it to Madrid"
Lorna Cruz, CNA (Catholic News Agency) (August 20, 2011)
"Hollywood star Matt Marsden urges young Catholics to get involved in movies"
David Kerr, CNA (Catholic News Agency) (August 20, 2011)






New Hungarian Constitution: Good News from a Former Workers' Paradise


Posted: 2011-08-23 09:21:05 UTC-05:00
I hadn't heard about Hungary's new constitution until today. It's been a hectic year for me: and that's another topic.

My wife left Human Life International's FrontLine (Summer 2011) open to an article about the disturbing outbreak of common sense in Hungary.

Disturbing, that is, for folks who really want to believe in 'advanced,' modern, 'intelligent' plans for perfect societies. What happened to the Soviet Union in 1991 was bad enough - now Hungary, Poland, and other former satellites of the worker's paradise are trying to turn their societies around - and may succeed.'It Looked So Good on Paper'It's a dark day for idealists. 

The Catholic Church doesn't, as far as I can tell, have anything against folks having ideals. In fact, much of our faith is a matter of working toward "the idea of something that is perfect; something that one hopes to attain." (Princeton's WordNet)

What sets us apart, I think, is the Catholic Church's insistence that a government has to actually work. Looking good on paper isn't good enough.

We're taught that whether we have a king, a president, or a council of elders, or something else, is up to us. But whatever system we use, it must acknowledge and accept natural law. (Catechism of the Catholic Church, 1881-1885, 1898, 1901, 1919, 2213, for starters) (And: "Is the Church For Capitalism? Yes: and No" (March 13, 2010))

Bottom line, as I see it: Any system of government we've got deals with human beings. If the system is designed by folks who believe that human beings won't act like human beings under their rule - we'll have trouble.Hungary's New ConstitutionHere's part of what Human Life International had to say about what the Hungarian government's done, back in May:"The New Hungarian Constitution"
Monsignor Ignacio Barreiro-Carámbula, Spirit & Life weekly e-column of Human Life International (May 16, 2011)

"There has been a great deal of discussion about Hungary's 'Easter Constitution;' so nicknamed not only because it passed with a grand majority on this past Easter Monday, April 25th, but also because it may represent a resurrection of values that many thought had all but disappeared from the laws of Europe.

"We have to understand the importance of this document, and why so many in Europe are in a panic over its passage. It is a surprising step in a very good direction, representing another step in what many believe is a long and uneven journey back to Hungary's, and Europe's, roots. Clearly, however, it marks a departure from the secular liberal ideology that, like a heavy leaden cape, seems to be darkening and weighing down so much of the contemporary world...."The "Easter Constitution" is a huge step backward for folks who'd like marriage to be defined as 'having sex when, where, and with whatever I want.'

It's also a radical step backward for those who think people are "potential" persons until they meet certain requirements:"...The most important innovations of this constitution, however, are found in Article 2, which establishes that 'the life of the foetus shall be protected from the moment of conception.' This document in the following article III n. 3 also expressly prohibits eugenic practices, as well as the use of the human body or its parts for financial gain and human cloning...."
(Monsignor Ignacio Barreiro-Carámbula)That ban on human cloning is a good idea, I think: not because Catholics are against science and technology; but because we're taught that people deserve respect. 'God doesn't make junk,' and all that.

Take stem cell research, for example: counter-intuitive as it might seems the Vatican backs stem cell research. The sort that doesn't including killing people to get at their cells. (April 28, 2010)Hungary: A Shrinking CountryThe "Easter Constitution" may help Hungary turn around a disastrously low birthrate: an average of 1.4 children born by each woman. That's not even close to being enough to keep Hungary's population stable.

Their population growth rate is around -0.17% - - - minus point one seven percent. The country's population is about 9,900,000 and shrinking.1.

HLI's Summer 2011 issue of FrontLines reported that Hungary's population dropped below 10,000,000 last year. For folks using a base-10 numbering system, in context that's a scary number.Good NewsI'm very happy for folks living in Hungary. From the looks of it, their country seems to have a chance of turning around from the 20th century's weird social experiments.

I mean to say: I've read of oppressive rulers trying to keep subject populations in line by killing their babies. (Exodus 1:16) Establishment types killing their own babies is an 'advanced' idea that didn't catch on until the century we recently survived.

Or maybe someone did get the bright idea of 'improving quality of life' by reducing their population. Archaeologists occasionally uncover ruins of some forgotten civilization.

And that's yet another topic.

Somewhat-related posts:
"Sex Selection, Newspeak, and Getting a Grip"
(August 11, 2011)
Particularly"Potential People"

" 'Pay No Attention to the Man Behind the Curtain:' The Pope in Spain"
(November 11, 2010)
ParticularlyOld-School News and Reality: a Disconnect
Information Gatekeepers in a Changing World

"Is the Church For Capitalism? Yes: and No"
(March 13, 2010)
"Human Clones Possible: Don't Worry, They're Just for Parts and Research"
(February 2, 2009)
"Life: It's a Single Issue, and an Important One"
(November 2, 2008)
News and views:
"The New Hungarian Constitution"
Monsignor Ignacio Barreiro-Carámbula, Spirit & Life weekly e-column of Human Life International (May 16, 2011)
Background:"Lexicon: A Demographic Implosion in Europe?"
Human Life International
1 2011 estimates. Source: "Hungary, CIA World Factbook (last updated August 16, 2011)





World Youth Day Madrid, 9/11, and an Imperfect World


Posted: 2011-08-23 23:02:54 UTC-05:00
Today is the last day of World Youth Day Madrid. It's a huge event: well over a million folks came from around the world.

Maybe it's because I'm an American: big numbers tend to impress me. Particularly when it's a headcount of people who went to the trouble of traveling hundreds or thousands of miles to get together. When the event involves a set of ideals, I think attendance says something about how important the ideals are to the attendees.

However, as the parish priest said this morning, World Youth Day Madrid isn't a 21st century Woodstock. It's about my Lord, Jesus, and the church He founded about two thousand years back. I'll get back to that in another post.Life, Death, and Getting a GripHuman life is precious. Sacred. I might not use the word "sacred" on my own authority: but that's what the Church teaches. (Catechism of the Catholic Church, 2258)

When someone goes out of his way to kill thousands of people, I think that's an unhappy thing. When the victims' offense was working and living in a country the killer didn't approve of, I think that's wrong. And a terrible waste.

Almost ten years ago thousands of people died when religious zealots flew airliners into New York City's World Trade Center. Many of them were American citizens, all died because hijackers thought they were striking a blow for their religion.1

I think Al Qaeda may have done more than any preacher to convince some Americans that Islam is a religion of kill-crazed assassins: almost as bad as the Catholic Church. And that's another topic. Topics.2

A reminder of the 9/11 attack showed up at World Youth Day:"September 11 flag arrives at World Youth Day"
David Kerr, CNA (Catholic News Agency) (August 16, 2011)

"A U.S. flag that has appeared at every World Youth Day over the past decade in remembrance of 9/11 victims has arrived in Madrid.

"The flag originally belonged to the family of a young Catholic woman from Brooklyn who was killed in the 2001 terror attack on the World Trade Center.

" 'This flag was given to the family of Suzanne Geraty,' said Fr. Gerard Sauer, chaplain to the World Youth Day pilgrims from the Brooklyn diocese.

" 'She was a parishioner of mine and I buried her,' he told CNA...."That article, and an account of a thwarted bombing attempt, reminded me of what Job and Ecclesiastes say in part: good as it is in some ways, this isn't a perfect world.Pacifists, Warmongers, and CatholicsSo, I think human life is sacred, and I'm not happy about the 9/11 attacks. Does that make me a pacifist? Or a war-monger?

No.

I'm a practicing Catholic. I can't be a chauvinistic nationalist who believes world conquest would be a good idea. I can't be a strict pacifist, either: although I think it's possible for a practicing Catholic to let others defend him.

The reason I can't be a pacifist is that I live in a country where, like it or not, I have to decide how to vote at least every two years. (June 29, 2011) That means that I need to consider how the candidates' probable actions in office would - or would not - be consistent with Catholic teaching.

Which does not mean I only vote for Catholics. Dante's virtuous pagans might do. More topics.Elections, Ethics, and Decisions
I couldn't vote for a candidate who promised to make all Americans join the Catholic Church. Or any other. I also couldn't vote for a candidate who promised to make religion illegal. (Catechism of the Catholic Church, 2104-2109)

And, getting back to this post's topic, I have to make an educated guess about how closely a candidate would follow the just war doctrine:"The strict conditions for legitimate defense by military force require rigorous consideration. The gravity of such a decision makes it subject to rigorous conditions of moral legitimacy. At one and the same time:
"the damage inflicted by the aggressor on the nation or community of nations must be lasting, grave, and certain;
"all other means of putting an end to it must have been shown to be impractical or ineffective;
"there must be serious prospects of success;
"the use of arms must not produce evils and disorders graver than the evil to be eliminated. The power of modern means of destruction weighs very heavily in evaluating this condition.
"These are the traditional elements enumerated in what is called the 'just war' doctrine.

"The evaluation of these conditions for moral legitimacy belongs to the prudential judgment of those who have responsibility for the common good."
(Catechism of the Catholic Church, 2309)Interestingly, the same criteria apply when fed-up citizens are considering whether or not to overthrow the government. (2243) No, that's not a recipe for liberation theology: and I don't think the United States is even close to a 'storm the castle' scenario. Yet more topics."Necessary Competence and Power" - Not YetI don't expect to see a perfect world until after the Last Judgment. Yet again more topics.

I do, though, think humanity could do a better job: even while we're dealing with original sin. I've been over that before:...We're a very long way from having an "international authority with the necessary competence and power" to simply arrest someone like Saddam Hussein. (Catechism, 2308)

Until we have something like Tennyson's "Parliament of man, the Federation of the world," we'll have to make do with the United Nations. Or go back to the 'good old days' that led to the 'war to end all wars' - and the war after that one. (March 22, 2011)...
(June 16, 2011)Related posts:Job 5:7 and all that"Sudan, Darfur: My Take"
(January 8, 2011)
"September 11, 2001: Nine Years Later"
Another War-on-Terror Blog (September 11, 2010)
"Dr. George Tiller Murdered: Two Wrongs Don't Make a Right"
(May 31, 2009)
"Beach Killer Joseph Burgess: A Case of Horribly Warped Christianity"
(July 24, 2009)

History, war, and getting a grip"Abram's Domestic Dispute, Three Dozen Centuries Later: Palestine and the U.N."
(August 16, 2011)
"Osama bin Laden is Dead: No Rant "
(May 2, 2011)
"'Just War:' Unpleasant, but Not a Contradiction in Terms"
(March 22, 2011)
"Indonesia, Islam, Adultery, Stoning, Burkinis, Divisiveness and the West"
Another War-on-Terror Blog (October 13, 2009)
ParticularlyNew Law Proposed in Indonesia: A Woman Accused of Adultery Should be Stoned 
Bikini Babes, Hot Chicks, Muslim Women and Ogling Men
Are Bikinis the Only Thing Holding Up Western Civilization?

"Conservative? Liberal? Democrat? Republican? No, I'm Catholic"
(November 3, 2008)

Somewhat related to World Youth Day Madrid"World Youth Day Madrid, and Living in an Imperfect World"
(August 19, 2011)
"World Youth Day Madrid: Shocking Extravagance; or Something Else"
(August 17, 2011)
"Religious Freedom, a Spanish Archbishop, and Pew Research"
(August 14, 2011)
"Studying the Bible: Carefully"
(November 16, 2010)
"Pope Benedict XVI's Face on 50-Cent Euro"
(July 24, 2010)

In the news:"World Youth Day Madrid 2011"
August 16-21
CNA's home page for the event"Hackers create problems for World Youth Day website"
Alejandro Bermudez, CNA (Catholis News Agency) (August 19, 2011)
"Knights of Columbus head challenges youth to save religious freedom"
David Kerr (August 19, 2011)
"World Youth Day organizers praise police after security scare"
David Kerr, CNA (Catholic News Agency) (August 17, 2011)
"September 11 flag arrives at World Youth Day"
David Kerr, CNA (Catholic News Agency) (August 16, 2011)
"WYD Madrid responds to 'deep crisis' of postmodern world"
CNA (Catholic News Agency) (August 13, 2011)
1 I suppose folks will cling to some odd beliefs about the 9/11 attacks for decades. Like this selection:Airliners used in the 9/11 attack were really guided missilesBecause President Bush ordered the attack

The World Trade Center towers couldn't possibly have collapsedBecause they couldn't haveThat's why

So someone blew blew them up

The American military blew a hole in the PentagonI am not making this up
Because some windows near the hole weren't shatteredThey're blast-resistant

And the airliner wasn't therePay no attention to airliner parts you saw in the news


An American jet shot down Flight 93Because someone saw an airplane flying near the crater after the crashTrue, sort ofA Dassault Falcon 20 business jet was thereBecause the FAA asked the pilot to investigate




The CIA did itA perennial favorite
(sources: Popular Mechanics, Wikipedia>)
I like conspiracy theories - in stories. But I don't believe that shape-shifting, space-alien lizard men secretly run the world. Even if a newspaper tried to warn Americans, back in 2008.

2 I am a practicing Catholic, and a convert, which may make me a bit more gung-ho about my faith that some. I also take religious freedom - for everybody - very seriously. I have to, because as a Catholic, it's one of the rules. (Catechism of the Catholic Church, 2104-2109) See:"Religious Freedom, Niemöller, and Muslims in America"
(April 7, 2011)






World Youth Day Madrid, and Living in an Imperfect World


Posted: 2011-08-21 20:30:15 UTC-05:00
World Youth Day is still going on in Madrid, Spain. Despite its name, the global get-together is more like World Youth Week - and that's another topic.

It sounds like things are going fairly smoothly, aside from a thwarted bombing attempt and hack attacks.1 The hack attack could have been worse: technicians stopped attempts to damage or change the website's content. The bad news is that DOS (Denial Of Service) attacks kept folks from using the official World Youth Day Madrid website, www.madrid11.com, several times.
Cut off From the Online World, Sort ofNot being able to use the WYD website is a bit more than a mere nuisance. Besides millions of folks around the world wanting to keep track of the even, CNA pointed out that "4,900 accredited communication professionals" were trying to cover World Youth Day - and hackers weren't making the media folks' jobs any easier.
With Friends Like These - - -The failed bombing attempt is embarrassing, since the police arrested a World Youth Day volunteer - who apparently decided that folks in Spain who criticized the Pope should be gassed. Make that ex-volunteer. He doesn't work for World Youth Day any more.

He's also got a lot of explaining to do:
"...The traditionally anti-Catholic Spanish newspaper El Pais claims that the arrest was to avoid the chance that any failed attack would panic people.

"The newspaper also said that police were alerted by the vehemence of the man's comments on internet forums regarding recent verbal attacks on Pope Benedict by various figures in Spanish civil society...."
(CNA)I am not by temperament a particularly tranquil man, and I don't like it when folks criticize the Pope. Particularly when it's the same tired anti-Catholic bias that led to my conversion to Catholicism.

On the other hand, killing someone because you don't like what he or she said is not right:
" 'Human life is sacred because from its beginning it involves the creative action of God and it remains for ever in a special relationship with the Creator, who is its sole end. God alone is the Lord of life from its beginning until its end: no one can under any circumstance claim for himself the right directly to destroy an innocent human being.'56"
(Catechism of the Catholic Church, 2258)
" 'An evil action cannot be justified by reference to a good intention' (cf. St. Thomas Aquinas, Dec. praec. 6). The end does not justify the means."
(Catechism of the Catholic Church, 1759)
An important term there is "innocent human being." Calling the Pope a doo-doo head because the Vatican doesn't support voting rights for chipmunks would be annoying - and crazy. But expressing an opinion, no matter how daft, isn't the sort of offense that warrants a death penalty. The Catholic Church says that freedom of religion is important. (Catechism of the Catholic Church, 2104-2109)

So, does any offense warrant the death penalty?

According to American law, yes. One way that American law is different from the hot-headed student in Madrid is that we have a process that's supposed to take imposing the death penalty out of the hands of some individual. It's not a perfect system, and that's another topic:"Capital Punishment: Killing Those Who Deserve to Die "
(October 2, 2008)
Attempted Mass Murder? Or Anger Management Issues?The ex-volunteer may not have really meant to hurt anybody, not physically. Remember, it was the "vehemence of the man's comments on internet forums regarding recent verbal attacks on Pope Benedict" (CNA) that got him in trouble. For someone planning mass murder, he seemed to be rather unprepared:"...A police spokesman confirmed that they had indeed arrested an unnamed suspect yesterday and that he is a student specializing in organic chemistry. However, they stressed that no actual chemicals had been found during raids on his apartment...."
(CNA)I think it's possible that the unnamed student has anger management issues and a profound lack of common sense.

I mean to say: This is not an era in which police are likely to think someone threatening to kill people he doesn't approve of is 'just kidding around.' Remember 1995, when cult members released sarin gas in Tokyo subways?2

Not-completely-unrelated posts:
Responses to a fallen world, sensible and otherwise"Abandoning the Path of Hatred? Sounds Like a Plan"
(July 24, 2011)
"Crowbar for Christ in Colorado?"
(October 7, 2010)
" 'Death Cookie' Comic: Seemed Like a Good Idea At the Time?"
(March 5, 2010)
"Religious Symbols Verboten! 'IHS' Verboten! - Rules for Leader's Appearance at Georgetown"
(April 16, 2009)

Sort of related to World Youth Day Madrid"World Youth Day Madrid: Shocking Extravagance; or Something Else"
(August 17, 2011)
"Religious Freedom, a Spanish Archbishop, and Pew Research"
(August 14, 2011)
"Incense: Reverence, Prayer, and a Shovel-Stoked Thurible"
(April 8, 2011)
"Studying the Bible: Carefully"
(November 16, 2010)
"Pope Benedict XVI's Face on 50-Cent Euro"
(July 24, 2010)

In the news:  
"World Youth Day Madrid 2011"
August 16-21
CNA's home page for the event
"Hackers create problems for World Youth Day website"
Alejandro Bermudez, CNA (Catholis News Agency) (August 19, 2011)
"Knights of Columbus head challenges youth to save religious freedom"
David Kerr (August 19, 2011)
"World Youth Day organizers praise police after security scare"
David Kerr, CNA (Catholic News Agency) (August 17, 2011)
"September 11 flag arrives at World Youth Day"
David Kerr, CNA (Catholic News Agency) (August 16, 2011)
"WYD Madrid responds to 'deep crisis' of postmodern world"
CNA (Catholic News Agency) (August 13, 2011)
1 Excerpts from CNA news:
"Knights of Columbus head challenges youth to save religious freedom"
David Kerr (August 19, 2011)

"The Supreme Knight of the Knights of Columbus told young pilgrims in Madrid that the right to practice their faith could be kept or lost in the future, depending on their public witness and awareness.

" 'What are you going to do about it? Because I think you'll have longer time to do something about it than I will,' he said, addressing over 1,000 pilgrims at World Youth Day 2011...."
"Pope offers encouragement to young religious sisters and professors"
Lorna Cruz, CNA (Catholic News Agency) (August 19, 2011)

"Pope Benedict XVI met with young religious sisters and later with young university professors on Aug. 19 at the royal site of El Estorial. He emphasized the importance of the sisters' radical consecration and urged the professors to be a source of encouragement for students.

" 'The Pope spoke about a personal encounter with Christ, and that (encounter) is what fulfills us,' said Sr. Ruth Martin, a 38-year-old sister of the recently founded religious community, Ieuso Communio...."
"Hackers create problems for World Youth Day website"
Alejandro Bermudez, CNA (Catholic News Agency) (August 19, 2011)

"Issues with World Youth Day's official website are due to hacking attempts, the event's press office announced Aug. 19.

"While Pope Benedict XVI ate lunch with 12 youth from around the world, the press office issued a statement explaining that 'out of respect for the millions of people who are following us around the world and the 4,900 accredited communication professionals at WYD, we believe it is necessary to inform the public about this hacking attempt.'..."
"World Youth Day organizers praise police after security scare"
David Kerr, CNA (Catholic News Agency) (August 17, 2011)

"The organizers of World Youth Day are praising the Spanish police after they arrested a Mexican chemistry student for allegedly plotting to gas anti-Pope protesters at this week's Catholic youth festival in Madrid.

" 'We condemn any type of violence. This man was a volunteer for World Youth Day, but is no longer such,' said spokesman Rafa Rubio to CNA on August 17...."
2 On March 20, 1995, a religious cult in killed 12 people and injured thousands in Tokyo subways:"March 20, 1995: Poison Gas Wreaks Tokyo Subway Terror"
Randy Alfred, Discoveries, Science, Wired (March 20, 2009)






World Youth Day Madrid: Shocking Extravagance; or Something Else


Posted: 2011-08-20 10:02:49 UTC-05:00
The 2011 World Youth Day in Madrid, Spain, is in progress now - two days down, four to go, if I have the count right.

Depending on who you listen to, the event is:
A shocking extravaganceHeartlessly dropped on the aching backs of Spain's working classBy the Catholic ChurchIn league with the current administration in Spain

The cads!!


An opportunity for youth and young adults to find "a foundation on which to build their lives"
A wonderful business opportunity for anybody in or near Madrid whoSells small consumer goods
Provides tourism-related services
Depends on a merchant or service provider asAn employee
A business-to-business vendor
a landlord


Some parts of that list are more related to the space-time continuum you and I live in than others. I quoted a Spanish archbishop's reality check about who's paying for the event yesterday. (August 14, 2011)
Foreign Feet Attack Spain's Pavement!!I suppose there might be indirect costs to Spanish taxpayers, as hinted in this excerpt:
"...More than 130,000 young people from across the world are in Spain's 65 dioceses, before the international gathering begins on Aug. 16...."
(CNA (August 15, 2011)All those young folks have to get from their point of entry to wherever they're staying. Think about it: even if they walked barefoot, each step they took would wear away a bit of pavement, scuff a lawn, or otherwise trample Spain.

How a person would calculate cost-per-step for a pedestrian, so the participants could be charged a 'walker's fee,' is beyond me. And I'm getting a little off-topic.

Or maybe not so much. About 1,000,000 folks are coming to the Madrid area for this event: young attendees, adults associated with the attendees - probably including parents who decided to 'tag along' and see one of Europe's great cities. That's a lot of people. Even if they don't act like college students on spring break, Madrid's police force will need extra on-duty officers for traffic control and other routines.

My understanding is that host cities bill event organizers for that sort of extra cost - but maybe Madrid doesn't work that way.
How Dare Catholics Spend Money in Spain?!Today's news includes a story about the arrest of someone who apparently thought folks who criticize the Pope should be gassed. I'll get back to that attitude later.1 Here's an excerpt from that story:
"...The traditionally anti-Catholic Spanish  newspaper El Pais claims that the arrest was to avoid the chance that  any failed attack would panic people...."

"...The  news of the arrest emerged only hours before a demonstration in Madrid  this evening against the alleged costs of the papal visit."

"  'We are not angry about the Pope's visit, which some will agree with  and others won't, but rather over the financing of it with public money,  especially at a time when many services are being cut because it's  necessary to curb government spending,' said campaign group 15-M said in  a statement."

"However, organizers of World  Youth Day insist the event is at 'zero cost to taxpayers' and will, in  fact, bring money into the Spanish economy with over a million visitors  expected in the nation's capital this week."

"Spain  is currently gripped by an economic crisis that has resulted in it  having the highest unemployment rate in the industrialized world."
(CNA (August 17, 2011))Keeping the Working Class in the 'Right' State of MindI suspect that some of the more tightly-wound 'Foreigners Stay Home' crowd know how much wealth flows into the host country in events like this: and don't like it. Maybe I'm being unfair.

On the other hand, folks who are unemployed are under a lot of stress - I've had the experience often enough to know that. Staying calm isn't easy with stress like that. Not for me, anyway.

As I've said before, emotion and reason don't play well together: so when folks are stressed out and emotions run high, they're less likely to carefully consider what politicos and editors say.

I posted these links to posts about emotion, reason, and placing blame last month, too:
"Lebanon, Israel, Pakistan, India, and the Lizard People"
Another War-on-Terror Blog (January 14, 2009)
ParticularlySomeone to Blame

"Emotions, the Frontal Cortex, The War on Terror, Anarchists, and the Illuminati"
Another War-on-Terror Blog (December 23, 2008)
Political, No: Concerned, YesI've said it before: This isn't a "political" blog. I'm not primarily interested in political shenanigans. I don't say that you either like my favorite candidate: or are stupid. I'm not even unswervingly loyal, above and beyond the call of reason, to any political party.

But I'm not 'so heavenly minded, I'm no earthly good.' At least, I hope not.

Which is why I sometimes speculate on why someone would insist that nearly a million foreigners coming to spend money is a bad thing.

In a way, what happens in Spain 'is none of my business.' The country's thousands of miles away, on the other side of an ocean. It's likely I'll never see the place, let alone live there. On the other hand, I'm Catholic - and I've discussed our catholic (lower-case "c") idea of who's a neighbor before. Recently. (August 5, 2011)

Besides, the odd insistence that a flood of visitors with money to spend was a bad thing gave me a chance to discuss emotions, reason, and how they tie in with marketing. Or propaganda. The basic point there is that a savvy demagogue appeals "to popular passions and prejudices" - not facts and reason.
Profit, People, and PrinciplesAlthough some monastic orders renounce worldly goods, a Catholic may be rich, poor, or anything in between. It isn't the money that gets folks in trouble - it's love of money. (1 Timothy 6:10, Hebrews 13:5, Catechism of the Catholic Church, Catechism, 2113) I've been over that earlier this month. (August 4, 2011)

The seventh Commandment is pretty straightforward: "You shall not steal." (Exodus 20:15, Deuteronomy 5:19, Matthew 19:18) But after thousands of years' experience with humanity: the Church has prudently spelled out what "do not steal" means. Here's a sample:
Opening and running a business is okaySo is economic enterprise in general
If moral principles are followed
(Catechism, 2430)

Making a profit is okayBut it's not the whole picture
(Catechism, 2432)

Those 'moral principles' include, but aren't limited to, whether or not it's okay to sell kiddie porn in a candy store. (It's not, by the way: Catechism of the Catholic Church, 2354) Like I've said, morality isn't just about "morality." (June 3, 2011)

I think one reason some folks think the Catholic Church is Satanic, and others think it's "vague," on issues is that we don't get draconian, one-size-fits-all rules about day-to-day detail in our lives. Like whether it's moral to use suspenders with trousers, or which side of the road to drive on.

What we get, I've found, are usually more like guidelines: the reason for whatever rules we may set up for the little patch of space and time we live in at the moment.

Like this set of instructions about the social order:"A theory that makes profit the exclusive norm and ultimate end of economic activity is morally unacceptable. The disordered desire for money cannot but produce perverse effects. It is one of the causes of the many conflicts which disturb the social order.204

"A system that 'subordinates the basic rights of individuals and of groups to the collective organization of production' is contrary to human dignity.205 Every practice that reduces persons to nothing more than a means of profit enslaves man, leads to idolizing money, and contributes to the spread of atheism. 'You cannot serve God and mammon.'206 "
(2424)There's more, of course. A pretty good place to start is Catechism of the Catholic Church, 2401-2463.Update (August 18, 2011)

I fell asleep while writing this last night, and didn't get it posted. Which is just as well: I've corrected a few typos, and found a couple spots that needed rewriting.

You'll notice that I still haven't gotten around to opining on the "foundation" opinion about what World Youth Day Madrid is - and didn't get back to the chap who got arrested. My plan is to post about those topics today, and maybe later this week.

But then, I'd planned to post this yesterday - we'll see I actually get done.

Thanks for your patience.Not-completely-unrelated posts:
Sort of related to World Youth Day Madrid"Religious Freedom, a Spanish Archbishop, and Pew Research"
(August 14, 2011)
"Abandoning the Path of Hatred? Sounds Like a Plan"
(July 24, 2011)
"Incense: Reverence, Prayer, and a Shovel-Stoked Thurible"
(April 8, 2011)
"Studying the Bible: Carefully"
(November 16, 2010)
"Pope Benedict XVI's Face on 50-Cent Euro"
(July 24, 2010)

Getting a grip about money"America's Economy Isn't Doomed?!"
(August 10, 2011)
"Government Shutdowns, Credit Card Debt, and Common Sense"
(July 22, 2011)
"Success, Wealth, Poverty, and Getting a Grip"
(September 27, 2010)
"Caritas in Veritate: Charity, Hungry Nations of the World, and the Catholic Church"
(July 8, 2010)
"Is the Church For Capitalism? Yes: and No"
(March 13, 2010)

In the news: 
"World Youth Day Madrid 2011"
August 16-21
CNA's home page for the event
"World Youth Day organizers praise police after security scare"
David Kerr, CNA (Catholic News Agency) (August 17, 2011)
"English-speaking WYD pilgrims paying tribute to Blessed John Paul"
CNA (Catholic News Agency) (August 17, 2011)
"September 11 flag arrives at World Youth Day"
David Kerr, CNA (Catholic News Agency) (August 16, 2011)
"WYD Madrid responds to 'deep crisis' of postmodern world"
CNA (Catholic News Agency) (August 13, 2011)
1 Update (August 20, 2011)

I got around to posting about the wannabe-bomber, or hotheaded twit, quite a bit later:"World Youth Day Madrid, and Living in an Imperfect World"
(August 19, 2011)





Abram's Domestic Dispute, Three Dozen Centuries Later: Palestine and the U.N.


Posted: 2011-08-18 15:47:26 UTC-05:00
"Palestinian officials" want the UN to make a Palestinian State, "recognise a Palestinian state within 1967 borders." (BBC News) I'm not entirely clear whether that's the borders as they existed before - or after - the 1967 Six Day War.

The Six Day War is when the Arab world rose up to crush Israel, and establish their preferred status quo in the region. The conflict didn't work out quite as planned: largely, I gather, because the Jews refused to cooperate and lose the battles. Dashed impertinent of them, in a way.

I think it'd be nice if the folks we call Palestinians were better off. I also think it'd be nice if Syria's boss would stop killing Palestinians. I'll get back to that sort of thing in a bit.Jericho to Dunwoody, Georgia: Getting a Sense of ScaleAmericans, I think, tend to think something is "old" when it was made last year (automobiles), or isn't digital (electronics).

Nothing wrong with that: it's just the way we are. I think it has something to do with being a nation that's less than a quarter-millennia old, and gives its government a biannual review to see who goes and who stays. We've got one of those coming a year from November: we call them "elections."

America shows no signs of settling down to a nice, quiet, serene slide down the slopes of entropy. Not that I can see, anyway. We've still got new cities popping up - like Dunwoody, Georgia, that officially incorporated about three years back.

Not all parts of the world are quite like that.

Folks have been living in Jericho, for example, for about 11,000 years. That's 'way before the first Pharaohs, and "old" even by the standards of a region that's seen Assyrian, Babylonian, Chaldean, Aegean, Roman, and assorted other powers come and go.

About 20,000 folks live in Jericho today: and my guess is that someone's going to be raising families there when students get confused about whether the Roman and the British Empires were contemporary with Ancient Egypt.1 The site is a pretty good one for settlement.

Bottom line? The part of the world we call the Middle East is old. Ancient. Folks have been living there for thousands of years. Pretty much the same folks, in some cases.

It's a land where everything since steam locomotives is essentially "current events."Israel, the Jews, and Vast ConspiraciesI've run into quite a variety of assumptions involving Israel and Jews, some stranger than others:
IsraelIs a Jewish plotSee "Jews," below

Is in league with SatanAnd the United StatesWhich is almost as badMaybe worse



Causes terrorismBy existing(Can't argue with that logic)


Stands with Christian AmericaAgainst the forces of evilAnd other un-American influences

And valiantly prepares for ArmageddonWhich is nighAnd has been, since I can remember




JewsControl all wealth and powerAnd run the Catholic ChurchSecretly


Worship Satan
Aren't really Jews

Some of that list is true, sort of.

Israel is a 'Jewish state,' in the sense that the nation founded in 1948 to provide a homeland for Jews. Wikipedia and BBC News have pretty good backgrounders on the contemporary nation. I put links to the BBC and Wikipedia pages under "Background," below.

Israel also 'causes terrorism,' simply by existing. The current mess in what we call the Middle East goes back at least as far as a domestic dispute about three dozen centuries ago. (Genesis 16:1-12, Genesis 21:2-14)

Finally, Israel and the United States of America have been fairly strong allies. Partly, I think, because America is one of the few countries west of the Urals that doesn't have anti-Semitism.America, Anti-Semitism, and SoreheadsI know: We've got the KKK and assorted other white supremacist soreheads; and if you live in America you probably know someone who's convinced that the Jews are to blame for something. But as a nation we haven't had the sort of full-bore, turbo-charged, I'm-bored-let's-have-a-pogrom attitude that made the massacres at London and York possible, and inspired the Hep-Hep riots.

Then there are uplifting works like "On the Jews and Their Lies."

Again: America has its share of sociopaths and religious wackadoos. What we don't have is institutional anti-Semitism, or a serious grassroots streak of Jew-haters.America: A Christian Country (Sort of)It's been a while since I've heard someone call America a "Christian" country. Maybe because I make a point of not listening to 'frightfully-faithful radio' these days. I've got hypertension: and more stress I don't need.

Anyway, America is a 'Christian' country, sort of. This was a fair guess at how many folks believed what, here - as of four years ago:Christian 78.5%
Protestant 51.3%
Roman Catholic 23.9%
Mormon 1.7%
Other 1.6%

Jewish 1.7%
Buddhist 0.7%
Muslim 0.6%
Other or unspecified 2.5%
Unaffiliated 12.1%
None 4%
(source: "United States," CIA World Factbook (last updated July 26, 2011))
I think it's reasonable to call America a "Christian" country, at least in the sense that something like three quarters of the population would probably admit to being Christian. Being a "Christian" country, in the sense that Iran has a Muslim government? God be thanked, we're not like that.

The folks who cobbled together the Constitution were on this continent, instead of back home, in part because of state churches - and that's almost another topic.America, Armageddon, and Getting a GripI haven't heard about Armageddon much lately, either - again, possibly because I avoid 'religious rant radio' these days. In a way, though, I'm grateful to the radio preachers who infested the airwaves in my youth. Without their wild accusations against the Whore of Babylon, I might never have converted to Catholicism.

Moving on.

Armageddon is 'Biblical.' So many decisive battles happened there, that by the time John wrote Revelation 16:16, he could use it as a symbol "the symbol of the final disastrous rout of the forces of evil." (NAB Footnote 8)

It's dramatic imagery, it's 'in the Bible,' and I kept hearing about the coming Armageddon so much that by now 'Armageddon tired of it.'

Interestingly, Mr. Camping's Rapture doesn't seem to have stressed the military confrontation aspect of America's 'End Times' folklore all that much.

Since I'm a Catholic, I have to believe that I will face my Lord in a particular judgment, and will be at the Last Judgment. And that's yet another topic.2Palestinian Statehood and the End of the WorldI'm concerned about the United Nations and one set of wannabe nation-builders who want to set up a Palestinian state. Maybe it's just me, but 'and it is the fault of the Jews' seems to be a recurring theme in too many UN decisions.

Don't get me wrong: I have nothing against folks who live in the territory that Yassar Arafat used, who are trying to make a living and raise a family. I'd like to see them have a stable government - not an assortment of feuding warlords. Make that "activists." It makes the strongmen sound more legitimate, I suppose.

I'm not convinced that whoever those "Palestinian officials" are have what it takes to run a decent government. They'll need political skill, diplomatic connections, and willingness to solve problems without lobbing rockets at Israel, or sending a kid to blow himself up near some Jews.

Maybe if a Palestinian state gets imposed on the area, a nice, stable government will emerge. Maybe.

As I generally say about this sort of thing: Prayer couldn't hurt.

So would an end to the sort of treatment Palestinians are getting in Syria. And that's almost another topic.Rights, Rules, and Being CatholicI'm a Catholic, so there are some things I'm simply not allowed to do. Like kill my wife - or myself: even if I feel like it.

I'm also not allowed to hate people. (December 9, 2010) That, and definite instructions against discrimination, should keep Catholics from getting involved with white supremacist groups, 'liberation' movements, and assorted other aberrations.

But, somehow, some of us still get into trouble. More topis.

Here's a little of what the Church has to say about treating each other with dignity and respect:"Created in the image of the one God and equally endowed with rational souls, all men have the same nature and the same origin. Redeemed by the sacrifice of Christ, all are called to participate in the same divine beatitude: all therefore enjoy an equal dignity.

"The equality of men rests essentially on their dignity as persons and the rights that flow from it:"Every form of social or cultural discrimination in fundamental personal rights on the grounds of sex, race, color, social conditions, language, or religion must be curbed and eradicated as incompatible with God's design.40"(Catechism of the Catholic Church, 1934-1935)Vaguely-related posts:
In this blogDiplomacy, common sense - and lack thereof"Religious Freedom, Niemöller, and Muslims in America"
(April 7, 2011)
"Gaza Humanitarian Raid: The Other Shoe Drops"
Another War-on-Terror Blog (June 2, 2010)
"Gaza: It's the Fault of the Jews - And Palestinian Militants?!"
Another War-on-Terror Blog (September 29, 2009)
" 'Towelhead,' 'Retard,' and Talking Sense in a Global Society"
Another War-on-Terror Blog (February 24, 2009)
" 'Pope attacks Iran at Jewish Congress' "
Another War-on-Terror Blog (October 13, 2007)

Living in the real world"Circumcision, San Francisco, and Getting a Grip"
(May 27, 2011)
"I Worship a Jew"
(April 3, 2011)
"Arab Christians: a Short Review"
(May 20, 2009)
" 'Catholics and Muslims along with the fake Jews all are Satanic Cults' - Who Knew?"
(April 2, 2009)
"Jesus is a Palestinian: Who Knew?"
(March 7, 2009)


In another blog"Bus Stop in Jerusalem Bombed: Here We Go Again?"
Another War-on-Terror Blog (March 23, 2011)
" 'Pope Turns Back on Peace Dialog' - Sort of"
Another War-on-Terror Blog (May 11, 2009)
"Palestinian Plays Bocce Ball With Bulldozer and Police Car: Blast from the Past"
Another War-on-Terror Blog (March 5, 2009)
"Arab Leaders Pledge Billions to Gaza: But Not Quite Yet"
Another War-on-Terror Blog (March 1, 2009)
"Murderous Muslims, Catholic Extermination Camps, and Common Sense"
Another War-on-Terror Blog (February 8, 2009)

In the news:
"Gunfire 'all night and morning' in besieged Syrian city"
CNN (August 16, 2011)
"Syria unrest: Palestinian refugees flee camp, says UN"
BBC News Middle East (August 15, 2011)
"Q&A: Palestinian statehood bid at the UN"
BBC News Middle East (August 12, 2011)
Background:
"History of Israel: Key events"
BBC News timeline
"History of Israel"
Wikipedia
1 Rome grew from a spot on the side of the Tiber to an empire during the last centuries of Ancient Egypt. The British Empire started about a dozen centuries after Rome's empire fell apart - and broke up a few hundred years later. Things happen fast, these days, it seems.

2 The Church has quite a bit to say about last things, including this:Particular judgmentCatechism of the Catholic Church1021-1022
1051

BibleMatthew 16:26-27And see footnote 23 on Matthew 16:28

Luke 16:22
Luke 23:43
2 Corinthians 5:8
Philippians 1:23
1 Timothy 1:9-10
Hebrews 9:27
Hebrews 12:23


Last JudgmentCatechism668
673
677
1001
1038-1041 

BibleThe Song of Songs 8:6
Matthew 25:31-32, 46
John 5:28-29
John 12:49
2 Corinthians 6:2
2 Thessalonians 1:10
Titus 2:13

(from "Apocalypse Whenever"
(June 14, 2011)







Courtney Nash, Organ Transplants, and Bingo


Posted: 2011-08-16 12:42:21 UTC-05:00
A teenager in Florida died this weekend, from amoebic meningitis. Her mother says it was a "freak accident,"1 and I'm inclined to agree. Her mother also thinks that "God had a higher calling for her daughter."1 I'm inclined to agree with that, too: and the two statements aren't as inconsistent as they may seem.

Before anything else, though - a suggestion. Family and friends of Courtney Nash are hurting. They've lost a daughter, sister, friend: and prayer for them couldn't hurt. Also a prayer for Courtney.

Praying for the welfare of someone who's already dead may seem odd to some Americans. For Catholics who understand their faith - not so much, I hope. (Catechism of the Catholic Church, 1032) And I'm getting off-topic.God Killed Courtney?!I've run into some pretty amazing assumptions about God's actions and motivations. Like saying that the Almighty slaughtered Haitians in 2010 because of what their ancestors (presumably) did centuries before. I'm not making that up.2 Then there were clueless remarks made after the earthquake in Japan this year.3

I'm a practicing Catholic, so I have to believe that God upholds and sustains creation 24/7. (Catechism, 301) Also that secondary causes exist. (Catechism, 306-308) Which doesn't make me a sort of 'robot for God.' I've got free will. So do you. (Catechism, 307)

If God continually upholds and sustains creation, how could He possibly have let Courtney die? For that matter, why did a loving God let two of our six children die?

I don't know. I don't need to know. God's God, I'm not.4 And I'm getting off-topic again.Courtney Nash: "Freak Accident"If you hadn't heard of amoebic meningitis before, don't be too surprised. From 1937 to 2007, the CDC only knows of 121 cases of the disease in America. That's between eight and no cases per year. I put links to a few resources about this happily-rare condition under "Background," near the end of this post.

The amoeba that causes the disease lives in warm water, enters the body through the nose, and generally kills its victims. The good news is that it's very rare, at least in this country. The CDC's "Naegleria FAQ" gives a few precautions folks can take to keep from having their brains eaten by this microblob.

I think calling Courtney's death a "freak accident" is pretty accurate - given what the term means in conversational English, and how rare that particular amoeba is.Voluntary Organ Donation: "Noble and Meritorous"I also think Courtney's mother is right, thinking that "God had a higher calling for her daughter." Apparently the amoeba that killed her stays in the brain of its victims:"...Just seven days earlier Courtney signed up to be an organ donor when she got her drivers license, something that's now giving her mother peace. 'I got a call last night. They took her into surgery at 4 o'clock by 8:30 both lungs were already transplanted. The liver, the pancreas, this morning. This morning they're performing another miracle for someone else. They're putting kidneys in and they're doing more later today,' said PJ. She now believes God had a higher calling for her daughter...."Are organ transplants okay? Sometimes yes, sometimes no. (Catechism, 2296)

I gather that Courtney's decision to be an organ donor was "a noble and meritorous act." (Catechism, 2296) Which isn't the same as saying that organ donation is always a good thing:"...it is not morally admissible directly to bring about the disabling mutilation or death of a human being, even in order to delay the death of other persons."
(Catechism, 2296)In other words, arranging for someone else to use your organs after you're dead is a good thing. Killing one person to get organs that might help another person isn't a good thing.

No wonder Catholic teachings are called "vague" now and then. (July 18, 2009) We aren't told that gambling and alcohol are Satanic, and that sex is bad - unless you're married and are suitably grim about doing it. (Catechism of the Catholic Church, 2413, 2290, 2331-2336, 2360-2372) Let's put it this way: When God created man, "male and female," He didn't say 'oh, gross!' (Genesis 1:28) Still more topics.

Bottom line? Courtney Nash's death is a great loss to her family and friends. But folks who received her organs have a new lease on life: which, I think, is a good thing.

Somewhat-related posts:
"Christina Green, Organ Transplants, and Rules"
(January 16, 2011)
"Remember: 'Clinically Dead' isn't 'Dead' "
(October 22, 2010)
"Stem Cell Research: Backed by the Vatican, No Kidding"
(April 28, 2010)
"Prayer, Medicine and Trusting God"
(March 4, 2010)
"Face Transplant: We Can Do it, But is it Right?"
(May 6, 2009)
In the news:
"Teen who died from amoeba now saving other lives"
Holly Bristow, FOX 35 News (August 15, 2011)
Background:"Parasites - Naegleria"
CDC"Naegleria FAQ"

"Free-Living Amoebic Infections"
Parasites and Health, DPDx, CDC (last modified July 20, 2009)
"Primary Amebic Meningoencephalitis --- Arizona, Florida, and Texas, 2007"
MMWR Weekly, CDC (May 30, 2008)
1 "Teen who died from amoeba now saving other lives," Holly Bristow, FOX 35 News (August 15, 2011)

2 "Haiti: Voodoo, Pat Robertson, and the Catholic Church"
(January 16, 2010)

3 "Japan's Earthquake, Divine Retribution, and the Tower at Siloam"
(March 15, 2011)

4 I've been over this sort of unanswerable question several times, including these posts:"Losing a Child, Charity, and All That"
(June 4, 2011)
"Why did God Do That to Me?"
(February 12, 2011)
"Baptism of Desire: Or, Two Thousand Years of Not Knowing Everything"
(May 3, 2010)






Religious Freedom, a Spanish Archbishop, and Pew Research


Posted: 2011-09-01 19:36:43 UTC-05:00
Tolerance and religious freedom are important.

That's what I think. Which isn't all that important - except to me, my family, and neighbors.

Freedom, religious freedom, and tolerance, are valued ideals of American culture:1 so valuing freedom is one way in which I'm not particularly counter-cultural. And that's another topic.

I had to do a sort of mental house-cleaning when I converted to Catholicism, checking assumptions I'd picked up from the local culture against Church teachings. I had to discard some cherished ideas, like the 'clockwork universe' model. Which is yet another topic.

My ideas about freedom, religious freedom, and tolerance, stayed in the 'keep' pile: although I've had to stretch them a little.

The Catholic Church teaches that religious freedom is important. (Catechism of the Catholic Church, 2104-2109) For everybody. (Catechism, 2106) Which is fine with me - particularly since, as a Catholic, I'm a member of a religious minority in the country.

(More about the Catholic Church and freedom under Background, near the end of this post.)

Which gets me to this post's topic.
It's Freedom of Religion, Not Freedom from ReligionWhen I finished doing time in American academia, political correctness was in flower. Which may be why I'm glad I'm on the outside.

No rant - not today.

I think it's important to remember that America's constitution was intended to give people here freedom of religion. Not freedom from religion.
Burning Books, Disrupting Funerals, and Getting a GripI'm slightly sympathetic with folks who say they don't like religion, or religious people. I grew up in an area where too many radio preachers seemed to have trouble deciding which they hated more: commies or Catholics.

These days, we've got the occasional exuberant little church that makes national news by burning a Quran. And there's the recurring embarrassment of the Westboro, Kansas, Baptist Church: Fred Phelps' little roll-your-own denomination. That's the one that tours the country, disrupting funerals.


(Reuters photo, via FoxNews.com, used w/o permission)

No wonder the fellow said, "Go to Heaven for the climate, Hell for the company." (June 23, 2011)

But, like I keep saying: These folks are not typical Christians.

As for the broader "religious people" category? I think the Dalai Lama is a bit closer to the norm than Fred Phelps - but that's more of a guess, than a considered opinion.

Then there's Philip Neri, and I've covered him before. (March 15, 2011)

I've said this before - I don't expect to convince a zealot. Now, for non-zealots who've heard that religion is bad for people: 'What everybody knows' about religion on some of America's more (sophisticated?) circles - just ain't so. More about that:
"Religion isn't Bad?"
(April 12, 2010)
Spanish Archbishop Sounds OffPart of what got me started on today's post was what I read on the CNA website:
"Spanish archbishop: Catholics have the right to freedom of expression"
CNA (Catholic News Agency) (August 12, 2011)

"Archbishop Braulio Rodriguez of Toledo, Spain spoke out Aug. 11 in defense of World Youth Day 2011. He said that Spain is a free country where Catholics have the right to express themselves.

" 'Why are freethinkers, atheists and secularists more right than others?' he asked. 'It should be noted that Catholics, who pay taxes just like everyone else, make up the vast majority in Spain,' the archbishop added...."Archbishop Braulio Rodriguez of Toledo may sound a bit tightly-wound on the topic - but I think he has a point.
Pew ResearchThen there was this, from Pew Research:
"Rising Restrictions on Religion"
Pew Forum on Religion & Public Life (August 9, 2011)

"The kinds of social hostilities that recently erupted in violence in Norway have been rising across Europe, a new report by the Pew Forum shows. Social hostilities involving religion have risen substantially in a number of European countries, including Sweden, Denmark and the U.K. The report also looks at government restrictions on religious beliefs and practices around the world.

"The report, Rising Restrictions on Religion, by the Pew Research Center's Forum on Religion and Public Life, finds that restrictions on religious beliefs and practices rose between mid-2006 and mid-2009 in 23 of the world's 198 countries (12%), decreased in 12 countries (6%) and remained essentially unchanged in 163 countries (82%).

"Because several countries with increasing restrictions on religion are very populous, however, the increases affect a much larger share of people than of states...."I'm fond of the phrase, "my end of the boat isn't sinking." I think it's easy - tempting - to ignore a problem if it doesn't directly affect us.

Easy, yes: smart, no.

It's easy to feel that it's okay when 'those people over there' are told what sort of clothes to wear:
"Bikinis, Burkinis, and Modesty: The Other Guy isn't Always Wrong"
(August 16, 2009)
When the fashion police come knocking at the door, though - well 'it can't happen here?'

It's getting late, and I've still got chores to do.

Related posts:
" 'We are Parthians, Medes, and Elamites...' "
(August 5, 2011)
"Abandoning the Path of Hatred? Sounds Like a Plan"
(July 24, 2011)
"South Sudan: Darfur, a New Country, and Hope"
(July 13, 2011)
"Religious Freedom, Niemöller, and Muslims in America"
(April 7, 2011)
"School District Celebrates Religious Freedom Day: By Banning Bibles"
(July 1, 2010)
News and views:
"Spanish archbishop: Catholics have the right to freedom of expression"
CNA (Catholic News Agency) (August 12, 2011)
"Rising Restrictions on Religion"
Pew Forum on Religion & Public Life (August 9, 2011)
Background:
Catechism of the Catholic Church andFreedom, 1730-1742
Religious Freedom, 2104-2109
Freedom, faith, and reason, 154-155, 160
Freedom and families, 2223, 2228
Freedom and duties ofCivil authorities, 2236
Citizens, 2238


1 Note - I said "Freedom, religious freedom, and tolerance, are valued ideals of American culture."

America isn't perfect, and hasn't lived up to those values as well as I'd like. But I think we do pretty well. I think our track record - imperfect as it is - for letting folks be themselves is one reason that so many people are trying to break into this country. Yet again another topic.

America also has a pretty good track record, I think, for dealing with egregious practices. Not always promptly: It took something like a hundred years before the Federal government started sorting out systematic treaty violations of the 19th century.

Which reminds me of a quote I used about a year ago:
"Illegal aliens have always been a problem in the United States. Ask any Indian."
Robert Orben, The Quotations PageMore about me and America:
"Being Catholic - and Christian - and American"
(July 19, 2011)
"Immigrants, Illegal and Otherwise, America, and Getting a Grip"
(June 25, 2010)






Hummingbirds, Deuteronomy, Morality, and Getting a Grip


Posted: 2011-08-31 23:20:26 UTC-05:00
I like animals.

I think kittens and puppies are cute. I enjoy listening to birds chirping, cooing, squawking, and chattering in the back yard.

I'd say that I love animals, but that might give the wrong impression.

What got me started thinking about animals today was a hummingbird. Several of them, actually. I was at my desk earlier than usual this morning, and saw several of the little hummers flitting in for a morning drink.Feeding Birds - and Charitable GivingFeeding hummingbirds isn't very expensive - a few dollars for the feeder to get started; then about a quarter-cup of sugar each week for the nectar. There's the water I use, too - plus detergent to clean the feeder.

Arranging for a miniature air show by my window doesn't get in the way of this household's charitable giving. And I wouldn't let it. People come first, then hummingbirds.

At my particular judgment, I do not want the error of treating animals better than I do people to be on my record.

I couldn't plead ignorance, because I looked up what the Catholic Church says about animals. Not everything, of course. That would take - a very long time.Animals and the LawThe idea that animals shouldn't be mistreated is nothing new:"2 You shall not muzzle an ox when it is treading out grain."
(Deuteronomy 25:4)
Quite a bit has happened since Deuteronomy was written. Agricultural technology has changed. A lot. For example, I'm pretty sure that there isn't an ox-driven grain mill in Stearns County: even though this is a very agricultural area. 

But using different technology doesn't mean that we have to start over with working out what's moral, and what's not. And I wrote about that a day or so ago. (August 11, 2011)

Our technology changes. Moral principles don't. Morality, by the way, isn't just about "morality." (June 3, 2011)People and Animals: BrieflyHere's a brief outline of what the Catechism of the Catholic Church has to say about animals, and how we should treat them:We can't 'do anything we want' with animals
(2415-2418)

AnimalsAre under our dominionMoral law applies to our actionsWe must rememberOur neighbor
Generations to come

(2415)

Are not peopleDeal with human misery first
(2418)

May be used forClothing
Food
Pets
Research
(2417)

Belong to GodWe owe them kindness
Remember how St. Francis of Assisi treated animalsAnd St. Philip Neri
(2416)


Human beings areAnimalsA special sort of animalEndowed with reason
Capable ofUnderstanding
Discernment

(1951)

PeopleRational and therefore like GodMade in the image and likeness of God
(1700)

Created with free will
Master over our actions
(1730)

(adapted from Catechism of the Catholic Church)

Thinking that animals aren't people, and that people should act like rational creatures, makes sense to me. I also think it's a good idea to treat animals humanely.

As for some of what's been said about animals over the last several decades? That's another topic.

Related posts: 
"Sex Selection, Newspeak, and Getting a Grip"
(August 11, 2011)
Particularly'Technology Outpacing Ethics?'

"God, Genesis, the Catholic Church, and Getting a Grip"
(June 22, 2011)
"Archaeology Paleontology, Science, and Wishful Thinking"
(October 12, 2010)
"Death, Judgment, Heaven, Hell, and Warm Fuzzies"
(August 8, 2010)
"Animals: Yeah, the Catholic Church has Rules About Them, Too"
(August 17, 2009)
In the news: 
"Spanish government course teaches sex can be practiced with 'girl, boy or animal'"
CNA (Catholic News Agency) (February 3, 2010)
"Academy of Medical Sciences to examine ethics of animal research with 'human material'"
CNA (Catholic News Agency) (November 11, 2009)
"Chimpanzee should be a legal person, animal rights activists say"
CNA (Catholic News Agency) (May 23, 2008)






A Nerdy Interest in God and his Creation?


Posted: 2011-08-24 00:14:39 UTC-05:00
I suspect most bloggers get those 'grate post, you certainly informed me' comments, with a link back to some hair care product retailer, or generic pharmaceuticals supplier, or whatever.

Other comments are - odd. Matthew Warner wrote about blog comments last year: which gave me fodder for three posts. One of them in this blog. (June 11, 2010)

Most folks leave short, conversational, comments. That's in blogs that I follow, and mine: Your experience may vary. That's fine - and sometimes makes the comment string read like a casual conversation.

Sometimes I leave a comment that's - not short. Like the one in a post on Catholic Dads:
"24:15 Tumbleweed"
NOD, Catholic Dads blogs (August 10, 2011)
The post's partly about wanting to get closer to God - and worth reading, I think.

When I was done on Catholic Dads, I realized that I'd written a comment almost long enough to be a post by itself. Since I'm still recovering from the Catholic Marketing Network trade show, and running out of 'today' for today's tasks, I figured I'd copy my comment and paste it here.
Nerdy About God?NOD,

Thanks for sharing that.

I'm "people who 'grew up' somewhere." The Red River Valley of the North, on the Minnesota side, specifically. That life has its advantages: as does your background.

Good point, about our being "wayfarers and strangers in a strange land."

Now, the question: "Have you ever desired God?" Good discussion, I think, of prayer, desire for God, and all that.

Truthfully, though, I don't think I've *ever* had that "deep, keening longing that feels as if it can never be slaked except by an even more overwhelming Presence." It's not that I don't 'really' believe: at least, I don't think so.

But those intense 'mountain top' emotional experiences I've read about in 'lives of the Saints' books? Sure, I've 'felt the presence of God' when the Host is consecrated - no big surprise, considering that the Second Person of the Trinity had arrived. I've gotten homesick for the place I'm not at yet. But a sort of overwhelming emotional rush? No.

On the other hand, I've got a sort of nerdy fascination with God's creation - and a sense of wonder at what the Creator's making.

I suppose it'll do for now.
(comment on "24:15 Tumbleweed")

Sort-of-related posts:
"Faith With a Cold"
(October 18, 2010)
"Having All the Answers, Knowing Some of the Questions"
(October 2, 2010)
"God's Creation: He Seems to Think Big"
(September 23, 2010)
"Matthew Warner on Blog Comments: Part 3 of 2"
(June 11, 2010)
"Really 'Spiritual' Experiences: Those are Okay"
(April 22, 2010)






Sex Selection, Newspeak, and Getting a Grip


Posted: 2011-08-23 00:16:26 UTC-05:00
An op-ed/blog post in the San Francisco Chronicle's SFGate was interesting. In several ways.

A problem that's been brewing for years - decades - seems to be getting a little more attention now:
"The world is becoming unbalanced. In pockets across the globe, women are giving birth to too many boys. In China, the sex ratio is 121 boys to 100 girls. In India, it's 112 to 100. Sex selection also is a force in the Balkans, Armenia and Georgia...."
(Debra J. Saunders)"Potential People"There's the same old newspeak I've been hearing and reading for a half-century. I've highlighted some of the examples in that blog post:
"...In her eye-opening book, 'Unnatural Selection: Choosing Boys Over Girls, and the Consequences of a World Full of Men,' journalist Mara Hvistendahl estimates that ultrasound and abortion have 'claimed over 160 million potential women and girls - in Asia alone.' That's more than the entire female population of the United States...."

"...These immigrant women, the study observed, 'are both the assumed beneficiaries of reproductive choice while remaining vulnerable to family violence and reproductive coercion.'..."
(Debra J. Saunders)I don't know when M. Hvistendahl thinks someone stops being a "potential" person, and starts being a real person.

Since I'm a Catholic, I think that a person is a person from the time of conception. (Catechism of the Catholic Church, 2270) The 'life begins at conception' idea made sense to me decades before I converted to Catholicism.

The way I saw it, from the time an egg is fertilized to whenever we die all that changes is how big we are, and what we can do.
Nothing But Smart, Strong, Beautiful People?I suppose a society could wait until someone was old enough to take aptitude tests before deciding whether or not it was a person.

A problem with that is that parents might get emotionally attached to something that wasn't smart, strong, or pretty enough to make the grade. Maybe if the "potential people" were raised in isolation, by specially selected and trained professionals - - -.

Another problem is that eliminating the 'unfit' isn't exactly ethical. In my opinion. And, more to the point, according to the Church. (Catechism, 2277)
Prostitution isn't Good for Women?!The same old "potential" people and "reproductive choice" language was no surprise. What I hadn't expected was this hint that enthusiasm for the 'prostitution is good for women' idea may be eroding in America's more 'intelligent' circles:
"...If you think that scarcity makes women more valuable, you are right - but that does not mean females benefit. As 'surplus men' have trouble finding mates, young girls are forced into prostitution. Others are forced into arranged marriages. On Taiwan's eBay, Hvistendahl finds three Vietnamese women for sale for $5,400...."
(Debra J. Saunders)I remember the 'Good Old Days,' when America's better sort wanted prostitution legalized because it would liberate women. And were taken seriously.

That actually makes sense, from a particular point of view.1
Feminists, Sex Selection, and AbuseHere's how D. J. Saunders ends the post:
"...Canadian sociologist Sharada Srinivasan has another suggestion. As she told Hvistendahl, at some point, feminists have to define sex selection as a human rights abuse. That would be a good start.
(Debra J. Saunders)As she said: "That would be a good start."
'Technology Outpacing Ethics?'Finally, the old idea that nobody's thought about the ethics of 20th-century technology got an encore: "in a world where technology moves faster than ethical thinking...." (Debra J. Saunders)

I'm pretty sure that D. J. Saunders believes that. We're in an era where technology is changing, fast. Quite a few folks seem to feel it's changing too fast.

I've often run into the assumption that nobody saw a down side to attractive ideas like killing people who aren't good enough. Not that folks are likely to put it quite like that.

Like I've said before: "If three hundred million people really believe in a stupid idea - it's still a stupid idea."Ethical Thinking - From the 'Wrong' SourceI think the "technology moves faster than ethical thinking" notion hangs on partly because the 'wrong people' were doing the thinking:"From its conception, the child has the right to life. Direct abortion, that is, abortion willed as an end or as a means, is a 'criminal' practice (GS 27 § 3), gravely contrary to the moral law. The Church imposes the canonical penalty of excommunication for this crime against human life. Because it should be treated as a person from conception, the embryo must be defended in its integrity, cared for, and healed like every other human being."
(Catechism of the Catholic Church, 2322-2323)Listening to what the Holy See has been saying for centuries - millennia - could lead to questioning the popular belief that religious people are, by definition, not rational. And that's another topic.

There's plenty of "ethical thinking" about how we should use technology - new or otherwise. The problem, I think, is that:The 'wrong sort' have been doing the thinking
They've been sayingActions have consequences
'Do whatever you want, and everything will be fine' doesn't work2

And they've been saying it for millennia. With little-to-no regard for intellectual fashions of the day.

An innocent person's right to not get killed, the idea that children aren't property, and other counter-cultural beliefs, may not be popular. But I don't think that means they're wrong. 3

Related posts:
"Remember: 'Clinically Dead' isn't 'Dead' "
(October 22, 2010)
"Pedophobia? The Doctor has a Point"
(September 4, 2010)
"Sex, the Practicing Catholic, and Vatican Roulette"
(June 5, 2010)
"Abortion, 'Health Care,' 'Life of the Mother,' and a Story About Two Guys"
(November 20, 2009)
" 'Your Life, Your Choices' is Back"
(August 23, 2009)
News and views:
"In this brave new world, girls disappear"
Debra J. Saunders blog, SFGate, San Francisco Chronicle (July 31, 2011)
"China vows to fight sex-selection abortion"
Vatican Radio (August 10, 2011)
"India's sex ratio / Sons and daughters"
The Economist online (April 4, 2011)
"There Are More Boys Than Girls in China and India"
Jeremy Hsu, Scientific America (August 4, 2008)
"China grapples with legacy of its 'missing girls' "
Eric Baculinao, NBC News (September 14, 2004)
1 Legalized prostitution, along with the abolition of marriage and some other groovy ideas, was supposed to liberate women.

Here's the reasoning:
Prostitution isn't a particularly skilled sort of work
Poor women could be prostitutesNo experience necessary
'Earn while you learn'
Achieve financial independence

Women could use money they earned as prostitutes toPursue an education
Achieve financial independence
Enjoy a quality lifestyle
Escape the oppression of male chauvinist pigs.

My guess is that too many folks started noticing what actually happened to prostitutes, in that nifty job. And that's another topic.

2 I've discussed natural law before:
"The Village, the Fence and the Sign"
(December 5, 2010)A fable

"Natural Moral Law, Catholicism, Karma, and the Tea Party"
(October 16, 2010)
"Archbishop of Minnesota, About Proposition 8"
(August 8, 2010)
"Social Media Guidelines from American Bishops"
(July 21, 2010)
"Demonic Deception? Or What You Get When We Play God?"
(May 5, 2010)
3 More from the Catechism:"The inalienable right to life of every innocent human individual is a constitutive element of a civil society and its legislation:" 'The inalienable rights of the person must be recognized and respected by civil society and the political authority. These human rights depend neither on single individuals nor on parents; nor do they represent a concession made by society and the state; they belong to human nature and are inherent in the person by virtue of the creative act from which the person took his origin. Among such fundamental rights one should mention in this regard every human being's right to life and physical integrity from the moment of conception until death.'80

" 'The moment a positive law deprives a category of human beings of the protection which civil legislation ought to accord them, the state is denying the equality of all before the law. When the state does not place its power at the service of the rights of each citizen, and in particular of the more vulnerable, the very foundations of a state based on law are undermined. . . . As a consequence of the respect and protection which must be ensured for the unborn child from the moment of conception, the law must provide appropriate penal sanctions for every deliberate violation of the child's rights.'81"
(Catechism of the Catholic Church, 2273)"'One must hold as licit procedures carried out on the human embryo which respect the life and integrity of the embryo and do not involve disproportionate risks for it, but are directed toward its healing the improvement of its condition of health, or its individual survival.'83" 'It is immoral to produce human embryos intended for exploitation as disposable biological material.'84

" 'Certain attempts to influence chromosomic or genetic inheritance are not therapeutic but are aimed at producing human beings selected according to sex or other predetermined qualities. Such manipulations are contrary to the personal dignity of the human being and his integrity and identity'85 which are unique and unrepeatable."
http://www.vatican.va/archive/ccc_css/archive/catechism/p3s2c2a5.htm#2275">2275)

"A child is not something owed to one, but is a gift. The 'supreme gift of marriage' is a human person. A child may not be considered a piece of property, an idea to which an alleged 'right to a child' would lead. In this area, only the child possesses genuine rights: the right 'to be the fruit of the specific act of the conjugal love of his parents," and "the right to be respected as a person from the moment of his conception.'170"
(Catechism, 2378)





FeedBurner delivers the world's subscriptions wherever they need to go. Publish a feed for text or podcasting? 
You should try FeedBurner today.


