Fracking is Likely Cause of Virginia Earthquake « 



Founder & Editor Luis R. Miranda


Search














Home
In-Depth
Money
Español
Fraud
Português
Science
Technology
War
Contact
About
RSS








Fracking is Likely Cause of Virginia Earthquake

25
Aug


Earthquakes induced by human activity have been documented in a few locations in the United States, Japan and Canada,” writes the USGS. “The cause was injection of fluids into deep wells for waste disposal and secondary recovery of oil and the use of reservoirs for water supplies.”
RT
August 25, 2011
Experts are looking for a reason behind Tuesday afternoon’s unlikely 5.8 magnitude earthquake that shook people up and down the East Coast, and some are saying that a recent rise in fracking could be the culprit.
Hydraulic fracturing, or “fracking,” is the man-made splintering of underground rocks to expedite the exploiting of natural resources. It’s become a widespread phenomenon since its introduction in 2004, and though the practice can help increase supplies of oil and gas without reaching out internationally for imports, the result it can have on the geological make-up of the Earth can be ravaging. Now some experts say the rise in fracking could be to blame for yesterday’s quake.
The odds of a quake exceeding a magnitude of 5.5 occurring in central Virginia are so slim that Dominion Power determined only around six quakes of that size would occur in the area over the next 10,000 years. Dominion was looking at building a third nuclear reactor at their power plant in North Anna, VA, where facilities had to be taken offline yesterday as a result of the quake. Despite predicting that the site would be scarcely affected ever by a tremor, the quake’s epicenter was only mere miles from the nuclear facility.
Dominion, which confirmed in February that it will be building a third reactor for the plant, was rated by the US Nuclear Regulatory Commission as the seventh most-likely site to receive damage from a quake, taking into consideration the 100-plus plants from coast-to-coast. Even still, the plant had its earthquake-sensing seismographs removed in the 1990s in order to save money.
When sites are subjected to fracking, waste salt water is injected back into the earth once fractures are created; in some cases, as many as 3 million gallons of the waste can be put into the earth in each well. Though earthquakes out east are unlikely, Braxton County West Virginia, only 160 miles from the epicenter of Tuesday’s tremor, has seen eight minor movements in 2010 alone. That site has also seen a slew of fracking operations in the several years before it.
Explicitly, the United States Geological Survey has published a finding confirming that processes like fracking can be to blame for “natural” disasters. “Earthquakes induced by human activity have been documented in a few locations in the United States, Japan and Canada,” writes the USGS. “The cause was injection of fluids into deep wells for waste disposal and secondary recovery of oil and the use of reservoirs for water supplies.”
Out West, geologists have blamed fracking on earthquakes that unexpectedly shook up the state of Arkansas, which recently saw over 20 small tremors in a single day. Freak earthquakes have also occurred in regions of Texas, New York and Oklahoma that should not be likely sites of epicenters, though those locales have all seen a rise in fracking in recent years.
Multi-stage fracking, which can drill several miles deep in the Earth, has only become prevalent in recent years. Once introduced, however, Arkansas, West Virginia and Texas all saw an unexpected increase in quakes across the region.  The correlation has caused concern in other parts of the country, including West Virginia, where residents are asking lawmakers to reconsider the legality of fracking, which can not only cause earthquakes but is overall detrimental to the local ecosystem. One incident in central Virginia occurred in 2008 when fracking caused an explosion of a natural gas pipeline that created a fireball that stretched up to half a mile long and tall and injured five people.
Mineral, VA, the site of Tuesday’s quake’s epicenter, is only 90 miles from the West Virginia border, where activists are rallying to change the lax state legislation which has caused companies to conduct fracking operations more and more and recent years.



								Eco World Content From Across The Internet.
							


								Featured on EcoPressed
							

								Mental Health and Climate Change
							




Advertisement

Share:PrintEmailTwitterFacebookMoreDiggStumbleUponRedditLike this:LikeBe the first to like this post. Tags: earthquakes, epicenter, fracking, fracking caused quake in virginia, hydraulic fracturing, injection of fluids, injection of fluids into deep wells, multi-stage fracking, nuclear reactor, US nuclear regulatory comission, USGS, virginia earthquake




Comments
Leave a Comment


Categories
Technology


Author
News Desk





← Libya: U.S. Government Propaganda and Media Lies
Brazil Protecting Colombian FARC Terrorist Since 2005 →





No comments yet


Leave a Reply Cancel reply



Enter your comment here...





Guest
Log In
Log In
Log In









Email (required) (Not published)



Name (required)



Website











Please log in to WordPress.com to post a comment to your blog.













 You are commenting using your Twitter account. (Log Out)












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. (Log Out)




Connecting to %s



 Notify me of follow-up comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.







 






Search






 Recent Posts 
Obama Orders Sanctions, Regime Change in Syria
NATO Shocking Terror against civilians
Death by Plastic: BPA is changing Sexual Orientation
Cartel de Sinaloa es protegido por EE.UU.
Sinaloa Cartel Becomes King of Mexico Meth Production

Follow us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter

Alternative Media

American Free Press
Callous Disregard
Campaign for Liberty
Deliberate Dumbing Down of America
Dr. Carley
Dr. Russell Blaylock
Freedomain Radio
Institute for Responsible Technology
International Forecaster
Science & Public Policy Institute
Solar Watcher
Weather Action


Past News by Month  Select Month  September 2011 
 August 2011 
 July 2011 
 June 2011 
 May 2011 
 April 2011 
 March 2011 
 February 2011 
 January 2011 
 December 2010 
 November 2010 
 October 2010 
 September 2010 
 August 2010 
 July 2010 
 June 2010 
 May 2010 
 April 2010 

News Archives by Category
Select Category
Artículos en Español
Articles in English
Artigos em Português
Corruption
Economy
Español
In Depth
Luis Miranda’s Articles
Science & Health
Technology
Uncategorized
War Zone


Worldwide RealityAnarchy in Tripoli puts every man for himself.
Agenda Termsafghanistan
australia
Banks
Barack Obama
BP
cancer
china
CIA
climate change
co2
control
corporations
Corruption
crisis
debt
economia
economic crisis
Economy
estados unidos
euro
europe
European Union
FDA
FEderal Reserve
financial
global warming
GMO
Goldman Sachs
Google
government
greece
Gulf of Mexico
homeland security
IMF
Monsanto
nato
Obama
portugal
russia
spain
technology
UN
united nations
united states
War





Disclaimer The use of non-original content in this site is protected by the Fair Use Clause created in 1976, which allows for the reproduction of copyrighted materials for the purposes of commentary, criticism and education.



Use of Original Content The Real Agenda encourages the reproduction -in part or in full- of its content when the sole objective is to criticize educate or comment on the issues addressed in our articles.  The only requirement is to give credit as it is due by citing the origin of the information.

Copyright © The Real Agenda 2010-2011.



Uso de Contenido Original The Real Agenda permite la reproducción parcial o total del contenido original publicado en el sitio cuando el objetivo de la reproducción sea el de criticar, educar o comentar sobre los temas tratados en nuestras páginas.  El único requisito es que se acredite el orígen del contenido como nuestro.

Derechos Reservados © The Real Agenda 2010-2011.







Blog at WordPress.com.


				Theme: Bueno by WooThemes. Fonts on this blog.			

















Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			









