Strong quake hits southwestern China, killing more than 100 - CNN.com

         SET EDITION:  U.S. INTERNATIONAL MÉXICO ARABIC    TV:   CNN CNNi CNN en Español HLN      Sign up Log in                Home TV & Video CNN Trends U.S. World Politics Justice Entertainment Tech Health Living Travel Opinion iReport Money Sports    











SHARE THIS














Print
Email
More sharing


Reddit


StumbleUpon


Delicious











Strong quake hits southwestern China, killing more than 100



By Jethro Mullen and Steven Jiang, CNN
updated 8:00 AM EDT, Sat April 20, 2013










People attempt to move a huge rock blocking the road to Longmen township, an area close to the epicenter of the 7.0 magnitude earthquake that hit China's southwest Sichuan province on Saturday, April 20. More than 100 people were killed and 3,000 injured.




Rescuers sit on ruins of a house in Longmen on Saturday.




Residents help carry injured people to the hospital on Saturday in the city of Ya'an.




Rubble covers roadside houses in Longmen on Saturday.




Traffic passes debris in Chongqing on Saturday.




A girl gives offerings to the dead by the side of ruins in Longmen on Saturday.




A rescuer stands by a damaged building in Longmen on Saturday.




Huge rocks lie on a road in Longmen on Saturday.




HIDE CAPTION


Earthquake strikes Sichuan, China
Earthquake strikes Sichuan, China
Earthquake strikes Sichuan, China
Earthquake strikes Sichuan, China
Earthquake strikes Sichuan, China
Earthquake strikes Sichuan, China
Earthquake strikes Sichuan, China
Earthquake strikes Sichuan, China



<<
<





1





2





3





4





5





6





7





8


>
>>






STORY HIGHLIGHTS


NEW: The death toll rises to 113, authorities say
More than 3,000 people are reported to have been injured
Chinese Premier Li Keqiang travels to the area
The quake struck about 70 miles from the city of Chengdu in Sichuan




Hong Kong (CNN) -- A strong earthquake struck the southwestern Chinese province of Sichuan on Saturday, killing more than 100 people and injuring thousands of others in a region that suffered a catastrophic quake five years ago, authorities said.
Thousands of emergency workers, including soldiers, rushed to reach the affected zones in the hilly region, and Chinese Premier Li Keqiang traveled to the area from Beijing, state media reported.
The death toll rose steadily through the day. It currently stands at 113, with more than 3,000 people injured, the China Earthquake Administration said, according to state broadcaster CCTV.
Xu Mengjia, the Communist Party chief of Ya'an, the city that administers the area where the quake struck, told CCTV that because of landslides and disruption to communications, determining the total number of casualties may take some time.
The quake struck just after 8 a.m. local time about 115 kilometers (70 miles) away from the provincial capital, Chengdu, at a depth of around 12 kilometers, according to the U.S. Geological Survey. There was conflicting information about the earthquake's strength, with the USGS putting the magnitude at 6.6 and the China Earthquake Networks Center gauging it at 7.0.

 

It was followed by a series of aftershocks, some of them as strong as magnitude 5.1, the USGS said.
Authorities have responded by sending rescue workers to the area around the epicenter, briefly halting flights at the airport in Chengdu and suspending high-speed rail operations, state media reported.
The event stirred memories of the devastating earthquake that hit Sichuan in 2008, killing more than 87,000 people.
First responders to Saturday's quake reported that the damage caused didn't appear to be as severe as what was seen in the aftermath of the 2008 disaster, according to CCTV.
Fan Xiaodong, a student in Chengdu, said when the tremors began to shake buildings in the city, many of his startled classmates rushed out of their dorms, some of them wearing only the clothes they'd been sleeping in.
At first, Fan said, he only felt a slight trembling as he dozed in bed.
"I thought it was my roommates shaking the bed," he said. "But the shock became stronger soon, and it came to me that an earthquake happened."
The epicenter was in Lushan country, a district of Ya'an. That area is home to China's famous giant pandas and houses the country's biggest panda research center.
CCTV reported that the pandas at the facility, which is about 40 kilometers from the epicenter, were safe.
Residents of Chongqing, a sprawling metropolis more than 300 kilometers from Ya'an, said the quake also shook buildings there.
Are you there? Send your iReports

CNN's Jethro Mullen reported and wrote from Hong Kong, and Steven Jiang reported from Beijing. CNN's Feng Ke in Beijing and Henry Hanks in Atlanta contributed to this report.






0
Comments »



SHARE THIS

















Print
Email
More sharing


Reddit


StumbleUpon


Delicious

















We recommend



From around the web































NewsPulse

Most popular stories right now


Loose tarp leads to arrest of Boston suspect





8 things to know about L.A.'s Koreatown





'Smart fork' may help you lose weight





Bergen: 7 questions about the Boston bombers





Europe's best Christmas markets




Explore the news with NewsPulse »



























                     Home | Video | CNN Trends | U.S. | World | Politics | Justice | Entertainment | Tech | Health | Living | Travel | Opinion | iReport | Money | Sports Tools & widgets | RSS | Podcasts | Blogs | CNN mobile | My profile | E-mail alerts | CNN shop | Site map    CNN en ESPAÑOL | CNN México | CNN Chile | CNN Expansión العربية | 日本語 | Türkçe CNN TV | HLN | Transcripts |    © 2013 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Terms of service | Privacy guidelines | Ad choices | Advertise with us | About us | Contact us | Work for us | Help            








