Mitt Romney: President Obama gave 'superb' address at service - UPI.com


















UPI en Español  |  
								UPI Asia  |  
				About UPI  |  
								My Account



Search:



Articles
Photos



Go




















Home




Top News

U.S. News
World News
Special Reports
Analysis
News Photos
Audio Archives


Entertainment

Movies
Music
TV
Entertainment Photos
Theater News


Odd News

Horoscope
Almanac
Best of Odd News


Business

Real Estate
Energy Resources
Security Industry
Crude Oil Report Analysis: Economic Outlook
Consumer Corner


Sports

Football
Baseball
Basketball
Tennis
Golf
Sports Photos
College Basketball
College Football


Science

Technology


Health
Photos

News Photos
Features
Entertainment
Sports
Archives


Columns & Blogs

Auto Outlook
Consumer Corner
Daily Mix
Economic Outlook
The Issue
SciTech Talk 
Supreme Court
Immigration Reform


Analysis

Commentary: Arnaud De Borchgrave
Walker's World
Outside View








Boston bombings manhunt
• Simpson, Bowles
•  $10B arms deal
• Venezuela election
• Midwest floods







			You are here: 
			Home
 / 
				Top News			 / U.S. News			/ Mitt Romney: President Obama gave 'superb' address at service 

U.S. News



Mitt Romney: President Obama gave 'superb' address at service


 |
 |    








Tweet











 


				President Barack Obama speaks at an interfaith prayer service for victims of the Boston Marathon attack titled "Healing Our City," at the Cathedral of the Holy Cross on April 18, 2013 in Boston, Massachusetts. The twin bombings at the 116-year-old Boston race resulted in the deaths of three people and more than 170 others injured.  UPI/Spencer Platt/Pool License photo 




                        Published: April 19, 2013 at 8:12 AM            





Slideshow


1 of 2
 
 










BOSTON, April 19 (UPI) -- Former Republican U.S. presidential nominee Mitt Romney gave President Obama high marks for his remarks on the Boston Marathon bombings victims.
"I thought the president gave a superb address [at Thursday's interfaith service] to the people of this city and the state and the nation," Romney, a former Massachusetts governor, told CNN Thursday. "It was an inspiring day."
Romney was invited to attend Thursday's service at the Cathedral of the Holy Cross by Democratic Gov. Deval Patrick, who also invited other current and former Massachusetts dignitaries.
Romney said he and Obama did not speak at the event.
In the interview, Romney stressed the need to learn everything possible from Monday's bombings in which three people were killed and more than 170 people were injured.
"This is a learning opportunity," Romney said. "We should learn the lessons that come from this and apply them to the extent that we possibly can."
Asked why he thinks bad things happen to good people, Romney said his only response to this type of question was praying for comfort and understanding.
"I believe very deeply that we have a creator and that he loves us and cares for us," said Romney, a Mormon. "But when he actually intervenes in the affairs of the people on this earth -- it's something that happens only rarely -- and when that happens and why that happens and who that happens to is something that we don't understand." 


Topics: Mitt Romney, Deval Patrick, Barack Obama, Boston Marathon bombing 
 
Recommended Stories

Boston Marathon manhunt: 1 suspect dead, 2nd hunted
Lutheran Charities 'K-9 Comfort Dogs' visit marathon shooting victims




		© 2013 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Any reproduction, republication, redistribution and/or modification of any UPI content is expressly prohibited without UPI's prior written consent.
Order reprints










Tweet




Featured Stories





Bieber posts drawing of Belieber hookup







Father of dead Boston suspect: He was 'a true angel'







What we know about the Tsarnaev brothers, so far







Spanish anarchists send top Catholics explosive packages containing vibrators







[VIDEO] Kenyan gymnast suffers 85-foot trapeze fall, survives







Liam Hemsworth asked for Billy Ray Cyrus' permission to marry Miley 







Kim Kardashian and Kris Humphries settle divorce







WB releases new 'Man of Steel' trailer 





  






Join the conversation
















Most Popular Collections




Immigration rally in Washington, D.C.



MTV Movie Awards



Cherry Blossoms in Washington, D.C.



Miss NY USA crowns ASPCA King and Queen



Academy of American Country Music Awards



2013: Celebrity break ups and divorces





Additional U.S. News Stories



Top News


2 shot as thousands rally to celebrate marijuana in Denver
DENVER, April 20 (UPI) -- 
			Two people were shot in Denver's Civic Center Saturday where thousands of people gathered for marijuana-inspired "420 Day" festivities, paramedics said.
		
N. Korea: We may hold talks with U.S., but nuke program stays
4 fishermen missing off Texas coast; 1 other rescued
Terror suspect arrested in Chicago
Feds plan to clear up older veteran benefit claims


Entertainment News


CNN gets ratings boost during Boston bombing coverage
BOSTON, April 20 (UPI) -- 
			CNN logged a 194 percent boost in viewers Monday through Thursday compared to the previous week with coverage of the Boston marathon bombings, ratings indicate.
		
Prince Harry to participate in South Pole trek with wounded military
NBC cancels 'Ready for Love'
Willie Nelson to play benefit show for West, Texas, firefighters
Andy Johns, Rolling Stones, Led Zeppelin producer, dies




Business News


Italian train operator says Frecciarossa 1000 is world's fastest
ROME, April 20 (UPI) -- 
			The operator of Italy's new high speed Frecciarossa 1000 says the train can travel at 223 mph, making it the fastest in the world.
		
Italian tourism industry benefits from wedding business
Luxury cars to get a boost in India via EU trade agreements
Credit agency Fitch downgrades Britain
Britain's Addison Lee taxi service sold to equity group for $457M


Odd News


Russia celebrates Biblionight
MOSCOW, April 20 (UPI) -- 
			The Russian State Library opened its archives to visitors as it stayed open for Biblionight.
		
Canadian officials remind pet owners to pick up dog poo
Stonehenge seeks first-ever general manager
The almanac
Your Daily Horoscope












Most Popular



1.
4 shot in basement in Ohio


2.
Mitt Romney: President Obama gave 'superb' address at service


3.
Boston Marathon manhunt: Suspect in custody


4.
Woman takes dad's ashes to the bank to prove death


5.
CVS racist slur: Company sued for writing 'Ching Chong' on woman's receipt





Stories
Photos
Comments















sign up to receive our daily newsletter



Featured Galleries

Boston Marathon bombing suspects



Best of the Tribecca Film Festival



Service for victims of Boston Marathon bombings



Boston Marathon bombing



Obama speaks on gun legislation in Washington



Adam Scott wins Masters



Cherry Blossoms in Washington, D.C.


 





Featured Photos


1 of 32
 






View Caption
 Enlarge Photo



			The rising Mississippi River takes over the Lewis and Clark statue on the St. Louis Riverfront in St. Louis on April 19, 2013. Officials predict the Mississippi River to crest at 39.4 feet on the St. Louis riverfront on April 23. That is more than nine feet over flood stage. The record crest set back in 1993 was more than 49 feet.  UPI/Bill Greenblatt		









"Since 1978, Chicago Police have arrested her 396 times--including 92 for theft, 65 for disorderly...
Female lay judge to sue over stress caused by crime scene photos, said she "was not mentally prepared...
Rupert Murdoch apologizes for NY Post's horrible covera . . . yeah, I didn't fool you for a second...
Former Texas DA, now judge, ordered arrested for lying to the court and hiding evidence from an...
Shots fired at 4/20 rally in Denver, harshing everyone's mellow (w/video)
Photoshop this free runner


 









Official Government Wires | 
				About UPI | 
				Site Map | 
				Terms of Use | 
				Privacy Policy | 
				Advertise Online | 
				Contact Us | 
				UPI Mailing Address

Top News | 
				Entertainment News | 

				Odd News | 
				Business news | 
				Sports News | 
				Science News | 
				Health News | 

				Real Estate News | 
				News Photos

Archive | 
				Job News | 
				World News | 

				Local News | 
				U.S News | 
				Special Reports



© 2013 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
UPI.com is your trusted source for world news, top news, science news, health news and current events. We thank you for visiting us and we hope that we will be your daily stop for news updates.


				© 2013 United Press International, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
				UPI.com contains copyrighted material, trademarks and other proprietary information 
				of United Press International, Inc. ("UPI") and its third-party licensors, including, but not limited to, text, photos, 
				videos, and graphics.  Visitors to UPI.com may use this Web site solely for their own personal and non-commercial use.  
				Any reproduction, republication and/or redistribution of any content on the Web site is expressly prohibited without the 
				prior written consent of UPI or its applicable third-party licensors.  UPI and United Press International are registered 
				trademarks in the United States and in other countries.
				
















