Midwestern River Cities Brace For Floodwaters [VIDEO]
 
 
Search
Contact Us
Sign In | Sign Up
Home
Hosts
All Hosts
Shows/Schedule
Jim Gearhart
Dennis & Judi
Deminski & Doyle
Steve Trevelise
The Late Show With Ray Rossi
Big Joe Henry
Weekends
Listen
Listen Live
Mobile App
News
New Jersey News
National News
Political News
Sports News
NJ Business Report
Ask The Governor
Day Trip Ideas
From The Newsroom
What’s So Great About The Garden State
New Jersey’s Lowest Gas Prices
Weather
Local Forecast
Storm Closings
Alan Kasper’s Weather Blog
Traffic
Prize Club
Prize Club Contests
Win Bon Jovi Tickets
Taste of Country Music Festival
Trivia
Games
Meridian Tuned In 2 Health
Your Feedback
Join Now
Promotions
Event Calendar
Dennis & Judi Diner Tour
Boss of the Sauce 2013
5th Grade Spelling Bee
Taste of Home Cooking School
Big Joe Talent Show
TSM Bring & Buy Sale
Photos
Contests
Contact
Contact
Employment
Contest Rules
Send Feedback
Advertise
 
follow on facebook
Follow on Twitter
subscribe via RSS 
What’s Hot:
Bomber Caught
Boston’s Victims
Texas Explosion
D & J Diner Tour
Talent Show
Restore NJ
Expert Legal Advice
D & J Cuties
 
 
Midwestern River Cities Brace For Floodwaters [VIDEO]
By Townsquare News Network
April 20, 2013 9:55 AM  
Share on facebook!
Share on twitter!
Communities along the swollen Mississippi River and other rain-engorged waterways are waging feverish bids to hold back floodwaters that may soon approach record levels.
Barge on Mississippi River (Getty Images)
After days of torrential rains, Midwesterners are watching rivers and tributaries rise — a sharp contrast to the drought. Illinois, Missouri, Michigan, Iowa, Indiana and Wisconsin all saw flooding Thursday and Friday, with Illinois bearing the brunt of it.
National Weather Service hydrologist Mark Fuchs said the Mississippi River rose a “pretty amazing” nearly 10 feet in 36 hours at Quincy, Ill., about 120 miles from St. Louis.
Months ago, the Mississippi was so low that barge traffic was threatened. Now, its barge traffic has effectively been halted from the Quad Cities in Iowa and Illinois to near St. Louis.
(Copyright 2013 by The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.)
Filed Under: flooding, midwest, Mississippi River, national Category: Townsquare News National, Townsquare News Network 
Send to a friend!
Print this page
Share on facebook!
Share on twitter!
Pin it!
Reddit This!
 
More from NJ101.5  
NJ Gas Prices Down Sharply
Search For Paige Aiello Moves To New York
Weekly Address: Marathon Bomber & Texas Explosion [VIDEO]
Search For Marathon Bombing Suspect At A Glance [VIDEO]
 Best of the Web
ZergNet
  
Leave a Comment
Listen Live
Meet the Personalities
 Jim Gearhart
 Dennis and Judi Show
 Deminski and Doyle
 Steve Trevelise
 Ray Rossi
 Big Joe Henry
See All Personalities
NJ101.5 FM on Facebook 
Our Facebook page is sponsored by:
Sign up for the NJ 101.5 newsletter
Get the latest news from NJ 101.5
Trending
Great Jersey Shore Restaurants to Celebrate Mother’s Day
April 19, 2013 12:00 PM
More Than 100 Years of Playing on the Beaches of NJ [VINTAGE PHOTOS]
April 19, 2013 12:00 PM
NFL Releases 2013 Schedule
April 18, 2013 8:40 PM
Video of Seaside’s Legendary Funtown Pier Ferris Wheel Being Demolished
April 18, 2013 7:55 PM
Play Jersey’s Opening Lines Tonight at 10pm and Win Comedy Tickets
April 18, 2013 5:40 PM
See All Trending Posts
 NJ Shore GuideGreat Jersey Shore Restaurants to Celebrate Mother's Day April 19, 2013Top 5 Jersey Shore Parks Where You Can Get a Great Workout April 18, 2013
 DAILY DISTRACTIONWatch These People Doing Slip-N-Slides Wrong — Daily Distraction April 19, 2013Watch These Animals Riding Bikes — Daily Distraction April 18, 2013Watch These Otters Floating on Their Backs and Doing Stuff — Daily Distraction April 17, 2013AP VIDEOS 
Listen Everywhere!
DOWNLOAD THE APP
 
Pop Bytes: TMZ Says Hip-Hop to Blame for Boston Marathon Bombing + MoreSelena Gomez GIFs – Weekly Motion Picture CollectionWould You Rather… Be Able to Sing Like Chris Brown or Draw Like Chris Brown?Aerosmith's Steven Tyler Lends Vocals To New Julian Lennon SingleBilly Joel, David Lee Roth and Steven Tyler Share Memories of Each Other at Stone Festival Press ConferenceSlash 'Speechless' at Video of 7-Year-Old Girl Playing 'Sweet Child O' Mine''The Crow' Reboot is Going After 'The Avengers' Tom Hiddleston'Dexter' Final Season: Spin-Off Not Ruled Out By Showtime'Doctor Who' Finale Reveals "The Name of the Doctor," Alex Kingston ReturnsAdam Lambert Teams Up With the Trevor Project + Offers Special VIP Concert to Contest WinnersStarDust: Seth MacFarlane Was Asked to Host the 2014 Academy Awards + MoreDumb Celebrity Quotes – Who Said This?
Terms
VIP Terms & Condition
FAQ
Privacy
Help & Contact
Townsquare
New Jersey Business Listings
Welcome back to New Jersey 101.5
It appears that you already have an account created within our VIP network of sites on . To keep your points and personal information safe, we need to verify that it's really you. To activate your account, please confirm your  password. When you have confirmed your password, you will be able to log in through Facebook on both sites.
Enter your password
Forgot your password?
YES, Activate My Account Now!
*Please note that your points, prizes and activities will not be shared between programs within our VIP network. 
Welcome back to New Jersey 101.5
It appears that you already have an account on this site associated with . To connect your existing account with your Facebook account, just click on the account activation button below. You will maintain your existing profile and VIP program points. After you do this, you will be able to always log in to http://nj1015.com using your Facebook account.
YES, Activate My Account Now!
*Please note that your points, prizes and activities will not be shared between programs within our VIP network. 
We're Almost There!
Please fill out the information below to help us provide you a better experience.
Zip
Subscribe to Newsletter
Continue and Activate
Sign into New Jersey 101.5
User Name(Email)
Password (Forgot your password?)
Log In
Register on New Jersey 101.5 quickly by logging in with your Facebook account.  It's just as secure, and no password to remember!
Not a Member? Sign Up Here.
Registration New Jersey 101.5
Sign up for an account to comment, share your thoughts, and earn points to get great prizes.
Registration
Register on New Jersey 101.5 quickly by logging in with your Facebook account.  It's just as secure, and no password to remember!
