CVS racist slur: CVS sued for writing 'Ching Chong' on woman's receipt - UPI.com


















UPI en Español  |  
								UPI Asia  |  
				About UPI  |  
								My Account



Search:



Articles
Photos



Go




















Home




Top News

U.S. News
World News
Special Reports
Analysis
News Photos
Audio Archives


Entertainment

Movies
Music
TV
Entertainment Photos
Theater News


Odd News

Horoscope
Almanac
Best of Odd News


Business

Real Estate
Energy Resources
Security Industry
Crude Oil Report Analysis: Economic Outlook
Consumer Corner


Sports

Football
Baseball
Basketball
Tennis
Golf
Sports Photos
College Basketball
College Football


Science

Technology


Health
Photos

News Photos
Features
Entertainment
Sports
Archives


Columns & Blogs

Auto Outlook
Consumer Corner
Daily Mix
Economic Outlook
The Issue
SciTech Talk 
Supreme Court
Immigration Reform


Analysis

Commentary: Arnaud De Borchgrave
Walker's World
Outside View








Boston bombings manhunt
• Simpson, Bowles
•  $10B arms deal
• Venezuela election
• Midwest floods







			You are here: 
			Home
			 / Blog			/ CVS racist slur: Company sued for writing 'Ching Chong' on woman's receipt 

Blog



CVS racist slur: Company sued for writing 'Ching Chong' on woman's receipt
New Jersey's Hyun Lee is suing CVS for $1 million.


 |
 |    








Tweet








 


				(Via The Smoking Gun)			



Published: April 18, 2013 at 4:36 PM
By KATE STANTON, UPI.com 




Hyun Lee, a New Jersey woman of Korean descent, picked up her photos from a CVS in February when she noticed that her name on the receipt had been changed to "Ching Chong Lee," The Smoking Gun reported Thursday. 
Feeling “shocked, stunned, mortified, humiliated, and severely distressed," Lee wrote a complaint to customer relations: “Do you think it’s funny? It’s very disturbing to me!!!!” 
CVS responded in an email, writing that they were "very sorry" about Lee's experience. They pledged to "counsel and train" the store employee responsible. 
Lee is now suing the company for $1 million in damages.
“He should have been terminated immediately,” Lee's attorney told ABCNews.com. “She never got an apology. She never got anything further after she complained.”
“It appears that the employee is still there. She will not return to that CVS until that employee is removed," her attorney added.  
Unfortunately your browser does not support IFrames.

Watch More News Videos at ABC
  |
Technology News
  |
Celebrity News
 




 
Recommended Stories

[VIDEO] Colbert mocks 'Accidental Racist' with 'Oopsie-Daisy Homophobe'
Teacher accused of molestation says she's too racist to have touched student
Top LA cop's Asian ring tone lands him in hot water
[VIDEO] SNL takes on LL Cool J and Brad Paisley in 'Accidental Racist' spoof
Miss Russia, Elmira Abdrazakova, becomes target of racist abuse over her ethnicity 
Cop steps down for racist Trayvon remark
Former racist who atoned for his acts dies




		© 2013 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Any reproduction, republication, redistribution and/or modification of any UPI content is expressly prohibited without UPI's prior written consent.
Order reprints










Tweet




Next Story: Rare blue diamond discovered in South Africa
Featured Stories





Bieber posts drawing of Belieber hookup







Father of dead Boston suspect: He was 'a true angel'







What we know about the Tsarnaev brothers, so far







Spanish anarchists send top Catholics explosive packages containing vibrators







[VIDEO] Kenyan gymnast suffers 85-foot trapeze fall, survives







Liam Hemsworth asked for Billy Ray Cyrus' permission to marry Miley 







Kim Kardashian and Kris Humphries settle divorce







WB releases new 'Man of Steel' trailer 





  






Join the conversation
















Most Popular Collections




Immigration rally in Washington, D.C.



MTV Movie Awards



Cherry Blossoms in Washington, D.C.



Miss NY USA crowns ASPCA King and Queen



Academy of American Country Music Awards



2013: Celebrity break ups and divorces


 








Most Popular



1.
4 shot in basement in Ohio


2.
Mitt Romney: President Obama gave 'superb' address at service


3.
Boston Marathon manhunt: Suspect in custody


4.
Woman takes dad's ashes to the bank to prove death


5.
CVS racist slur: Company sued for writing 'Ching Chong' on woman's receipt





Stories
Photos
Comments















sign up to receive our daily newsletter



Featured Galleries

Best of the Tribecca Film Festival



Boston Marathon bombing suspects



2013: Celebrity break ups and divorces



MTV Movie Awards



The best of Miranda Kerr



Beijing Fashion Week


 





Featured Photos


1 of 32
 






View Caption
 Enlarge Photo



			The rising Mississippi River takes over the Lewis and Clark statue on the St. Louis Riverfront in St. Louis on April 19, 2013. Officials predict the Mississippi River to crest at 39.4 feet on the St. Louis riverfront on April 23. That is more than nine feet over flood stage. The record crest set back in 1993 was more than 49 feet.  UPI/Bill Greenblatt		









"Since 1978, Chicago Police have arrested her 396 times--including 92 for theft, 65 for disorderly...
Female lay judge to sue over stress caused by crime scene photos, said she "was not mentally prepared...
Rupert Murdoch apologizes for NY Post's horrible covera . . . yeah, I didn't fool you for a second...
Former Texas DA, now judge, ordered arrested for lying to the court and hiding evidence from an...
Shots fired at 4/20 rally in Denver, harshing everyone's mellow (w/video)
Photoshop this free runner


 









Official Government Wires | 
				About UPI | 
				Site Map | 
				Terms of Use | 
				Privacy Policy | 
				Advertise Online | 
				Contact Us | 
				UPI Mailing Address

Top News | 
				Entertainment News | 

				Odd News | 
				Business news | 
				Sports News | 
				Science News | 
				Health News | 

				Real Estate News | 
				News Photos

Archive | 
				Job News | 
				World News | 

				Local News | 
				U.S News | 
				Special Reports



© 2013 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
UPI.com is your trusted source for world news, top news, science news, health news and current events. We thank you for visiting us and we hope that we will be your daily stop for news updates.


				© 2013 United Press International, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
				UPI.com contains copyrighted material, trademarks and other proprietary information 
				of United Press International, Inc. ("UPI") and its third-party licensors, including, but not limited to, text, photos, 
				videos, and graphics.  Visitors to UPI.com may use this Web site solely for their own personal and non-commercial use.  
				Any reproduction, republication and/or redistribution of any content on the Web site is expressly prohibited without the 
				prior written consent of UPI or its applicable third-party licensors.  UPI and United Press International are registered 
				trademarks in the United States and in other countries.
				
















