Business Line : Home Page News & Features
 
SEARCH
 
Follow
 
 Home
Today
News
Markets
Industry
Economy
Opinion
Companies
On Campus
Features
Money Wise
Blogs
Topics
Today's Pick
Gold
Forex
Investment World
 
 
   
With the Federal Aviation Administration approving a new battery design for the Boeing 787, Air India hopes to operate its Boeing 787 on domestic routes by the middle of May and on long-haul international flights by the end of the month.
Air India's Dreamliners to be operational by middle of May
 
Air India hopes to get its Boeing 787 operating on domestic routes from the middle of May and start long-haul international flights linking Paris and Frankfurt by the end of May. This fo... »
 
 
 
LATEST NEWS
 
Technical textiles to grow around 20% in 12th plan
1 hr. 46 min. ago
 
Pranab Mukherjee confers Padma awards to eminent personalities
2 hr. 15 min. ago
 
Jadeja guides CSK’s win against KKR 
2 hr. 25 min. ago
 
Goodricke plans online sales of tea in global market
2 hr. 28 min. ago
 
Modi, BJP’s best bet for PM post: Jethmalani
2 hr. 54 min. ago
 
Daredevils can’t leave rooms for errors against Mumbai
 
China says its nuke reactor gets first foreign contract 
 
Shah Commission to hear Odisha illegal mining issues tomorrow
 
Child rape case: Shinde promises action against guilty policemen 
 
BJP unnecessarily raking up JPC issue: Tewari 
 
More »
 
Mercedes-Benz to roll out 3 new models in 3 months
 
 
 The German luxury carmaker Mercedes-Benz has set a hectic pace for itself and expects to launch three new models in India within three months.
The company will introduce its all-new luxur... »
 
 Related: 
Mercedes GL-class launch on May 16 
 Related: 
Mercedes-Benz appoints new sales, marketing head 
 
2G scam: DoT policies from 1999 flawed, says draft JPC report  
 
 A political storm was set off today after the Joint Parliamentary Committee report on telecom gave a clean chit to Prime Minister Manmohan Singh for the 2G spectrum scam of 2008 and faulted the Department of Telecom »
 
 
 
 
Agri-biz
  
Meteorologists watch monsoon ‘engine’ in Indian Ocean
 
Meteorologists are anxiously monitoring South-West Indian Ocean to learn how the massive atmospheric engine powering the Indian monsoon is slowly sputtering to life. It a... »
 
 
 
Politics
  
Opposition slams JPC report, may want paras deleted  
Opposition parties have termed the JPC draft report on spectrum allocations “politically motivated.” The Congress-led United Progressive Alliance and its supporters, which are a minority... »
 
 
 
News
  
Increasing FDI in insurance is a prority for UPA: Chidambaram  
Increasing foreign direct investment in the insurance sector is a top priority for the ruling UPA, Finance Minister P. Chidambaram said today, hoping that a Bill to address the issue will be passe... »
 
 Related: 
India-EU free trade deal hinges on hiking FDI in insurance  
 Related: 
Reforms, rupee are key factors to be watched: BoAML 
 
Opinion 
 Columns
  B. Sambamurthy 
Banks and funny money
 
The Cyprus debacle and the rush for the Bitcoin currency are not unrelated events. »
 
 SUMIT MAZUMDER 
Time for some ground work
 
 
 It is not just the tepid economic environment that is to blame. Delayed clearances impact infrastructure projects. »
 
 Editorial
 
Village veto
 
There is a danger of the larger development agenda of State Governments being held hostage to narrow partisan considerations. »
 
 Opinion
Is constant product development good corporate strategy? - Yes
 
“Familiarity breeds contempt’. The old adage is so true for aspirational consumer products such as personal gadgets and cars. For what happens when there is stagnation in new product devel... »
 
Is constant product development good corporate strategy? - No
 
Product innovation is really of two types. Type 1 is incremental innovation, and Type 2 is path-breaking product development. Type-2 is good and Type-1 is bad. Type 1 product inn... »
 
 
 
Companies
  
Wipro Q4 net up 17%; sees delays in deal closure
 
Wipro Ltd beat earnings estimate in the forth quarter of 2012-13, but projected a weak guidance for the first quarter... »
 
 
 
Info-tech
  
Already given 25% wealth to charity: Azim Premji
 
Wipro Chairman Azim Premji today said he has already given more than 25 per cent of his personal wealth to charity, but acknowledged it’s not easy to use money well in philanthropy.
“I ha... »
 
   
Sports
  
Jadeja guides CSK’s win against KKR  
Kolkata, Apr 20 Chennai Super Kings made heavy weather of a small chase before Ravindra Jadeja’s blitzkrieg powered the visitors to a four—wicket win over Kolkata Knight Riders in a Pepsi... »
 
 
  
 
 
Companies
  
IBM revenue down 5 %; Poor quarter likely to result in lay-offs
 
First-quarter net income at IBM slid to $ 3.03 billion, down from $ 3.07 billion in the same quarter last year, IBM said yesterday.
First-quarter profit was 3 dollars a share, which misse... »
 
 
 
Companies
  
'FTA with EU may flood Indian market with Euro cars'  
The proposed India-EU free trade agreement (FTA) »
 
   
Companies
  
For sale, movie scenes and dialogues for ads
 
Who can forget Gabbar Singh’s Kitney aadmi the?’ line from Sholay? This and many other such memorable lines and iconic scenes are the newest revenue stream for movie-makers. »
 
   
Life 
 
  
Fashion blooms in a mandi  
Delhi of Lutyens with Karim’s gastronomic delights and Khan Market secrets. Delhi of the political masters, the rich and the famous with the aspiring young professionals migrating for a living.... »
 
 
Footloose in the clouds
Board, game for diversity?
True grit
Biz acumen made at home
eWorld 
 
  
The power of images
 
For most of us, social networking is no longer necessarily a physical activity. I talk to more friends in the virtual world, in a day, than I do in person. I share ideas, article, music an... »
 
 
I forgot my flight ticket but Passbook app saved me
Floppy discs were a disaster
New model for pricing data
Tackling two years of turmoil
Switching to smarter surroundings
Simplifying selling
I dream of owning a machine that can read people’s mind: Alok Bharadwaj
Being able to do things online is the biggest use of technology: Gaurav Aggarwal
New Manager 
 
  
The culture conundrum
 
An organisation, just like an individual, a society or a country, is said to have a characteristic a set of values, beliefs and behaviours that may not be as explicit as the money it makes or the... »
 
 
Separating leadership from the hierarchy
The Italian’s Indian job
Don’t be inflexible to flexi-time
The culture of Jugaad
Indian companies need to embrace open innovation 
BrandLine 
 
  
Set your smiley dinosaur free!
 
The Indian retail sector is attracting more and more entrants but many of them end up relying on pricing and promotions to make money. This can never be a sustainable competitive advantage... »
 
 
‘Indians a walking lesson for Western world’
It’s still a big draw
Finding its feet
Delhi fix
Still negotiating the Indian Terrain
Living in the lap of luxury
Travel and the Indian perspective
Tying them up in nots 
Companies 
 
  
Coal India looking to extract reserves from old mines
 
In an attempt to scale up supplies, Coal India is mulling part extraction of nearly 2-3 billion tonne reserves locked in existing and abandoned underground mines. CIL produced approximat... »
 
 
Rs 91 crore recovered from bankrupt firms in AP
PE consortium in advanced talks to acquire Reliance Globalcom 
Wipro Q4 net up 17%; sees delays in deal closure
Goodricke plans online sales of tea in global market
P.C. Jewellers to add 17 new outlets by March 2014
For sale, movie scenes and dialogues for ads
IOB issues notice to take over Deccan Chronicle Holdings’ properties 
Salary, benefits beat job security concerns: Survey
Info-tech 
 
US immigration Bill, visa process need review: Premji
 
 
 The newly proposed Immigration Bill in the US needs to be reviewed and aspects related to visa procedures need to be simplified and speeded up, said Wipro Chairman Azim Premji.
The ‘Gang... »
 
 
PE consortium in advanced talks to acquire Reliance Globalcom 
Telecom subscriber base dips a tad to 89.2 cr in Feb
Kaspersky launches upgraded anti virus software
Reliance Jio allotted numbers for testing mobile services
‘Regulator needs more power’
Additional spectrum allocation ‘intriguing’ 
Wipro posts slowest growth among peers
DoT’s dual tech policy ‘unusual’
Markets 
 
FIIs bullish on Tata group; up stake in 8 cos in Jan-Mar quarter
 
Foreign Institutional Investors (FIIs) raised their exposure in eight companies of the salt-to -software Tata group that included TCS and Tata Communications during the quarter ended March 31, 201... »
 
 
Indian cos raise Rs 17,000 crore through NCDs in FY’13 
Aloula Geojit Capital launches NRI advisory service
Stock, forex markets closed today
WDM witnesses trade worth Rs 5,003.10 cr on NSE
NSE to drop IVRCL from F&O segment
SpiceJet allots 3.59 cr shares to Maran, raises Rs 130 cr
Economy 
 
  
P Chidambaram meets US Treasury Secretary Jack Lew
 
Finance Minister flags concern over H1B visa issue »
 
 
Elections will help India achieve 6.4% growth this fiscal: Goldman
FDI in services sector dips 3.5% in Apr-Jan 2012-13
Forex reserves jump $1.4 b to $295 b
India tops global remittances list, received $69 billion in 2012 
Plan panel’s move to improve policy execution
Home Ministry seeks report from Delhi Police on minor’s rape
Tribes have right to maintain relationship with land: SC 
India is not imposing restrictions on investments: Chidambaram 
Stock Markets 
 
Kamdhenu Ispat in talks with PE firms to raise Rs 50 cr
 
Kamdhenu Ispat today said it is in discussion with private equity firms to raise Rs 50 crore for expanding the capacity of its paints manufacturing plant in Rajasthan and to produce raw material f... »
 
 
In FY13, IT stocks find favour with FIIs, not domestic institutional investors
‘Low brokerage alone will not bring investors’ 
Motilal Oswal’s new fund offer opens on April 22
SEBI moots T+1 settlement to reduce risk, seeks suggestions
Financial, commodity markets will remain closed tomorrow
Autoline shares gain 100 per cent in 3 weeks
Banking 
 
Andhra Bank to auction Deccan Chronicle properties worth Rs 200 cr
 
 
 Andhra Bank is set to auction properties worth Rs 200 crore of Deccan Chronicle Holdings Ltd (DCHL) to recover loans. “We have started the process under the Sarfesi Act and identified so... »
 
 
Raheja QBE keen on cover for clinical trials
Baring India to stay invested in Muthoot, Manappuram Finance
GIC Re turns focus on pruning loss-making segments
 Foreign firms set to cash in on demand for new format cheque scanners
Forex reserves up $1.4 billion
Banks told to submit financial inclusion plan for next three years
Federal Bank in Rupay League
Four-wheel models take to the ramp for a good deal
Industry 
 
  
Chinese imports ruining ceramic sector: Assocham
 
 With China dumping as high as 64% of ceramic product needs in India, a number of units in the country’s ceramic industry are on the verge of closure due to stiff competition and reduced pro... »
 
 
Workaholic Indians use technology to find work-life balance 
Visa curbs on Indian cos not in spirit of Indo-US ties: CII 
Microsoft emerges as most attractive employer in India: Survey 
Garment sector seeks 5% duty credit scrip
Technical textiles to grow around 20% in 12th plan
Tamil Nadu Cements to increase production
Foreign assignments help in getting promotions, says study
Breakthrough on Land Bill; will be tabled in Budget session
Agri-biz 
 
  
UP mills’ plan to sell sugar may pull down prices  
Industry under pressure to clear dues to farmers »
 
 
Providing a link for African cotton growers with Indian buyers
Holland extends help to produce crop protection solutions
Saptarishi Agro to shift facility to the Nilgiris
Declining trend in Kochi tea auction continues for second week
Orthodox, CTC varieties firm up in Kolkata auction
Spot rubber gains on short-covering
Training in rubber cultivation
Plans to boost rubber cultivation in North East 
Logistics 
 
Fourteen weekly flights connecting India, Tajikistan  
India and the mineral-rich central Asian country of Tajikistan will be connected by air for the first time, as over a dozen weekly flights will start soon in order to further people-to-people and... »
 
 
Jet hopes to connect smaller cities to Abu Dhabi, onward 
No change in ‘landlord’ model for Vizhinjam port: Minister
AI offers summer fare to Singapore 
US approves resumption of Boeing 787 flights 
Kochi port to develop outer harbour off Puthuvypeen SEZ
Consultancy fee fixed at 3.25% for monorail projects in Kerala
Commodities 
 
  
Universal Commodity Exchange, 6th in the country, goes live  
Universal Commodity Exchange, the sixth commodity platform, went live on Friday with 100 members on board. The exchange said it has another 200 application for membership under pro... »
 
 
Masoor gains on weak arrivals, improved buying 
Cotton static on weak export prospects
Rice seen ruling firm next week
Lacklustre demand for edible oils
Kalaunji, methiseed decline on subdued demand 
Sugar closes quiet on little buying 
Higher arrivals drag turmeric 
Hopes of bonus boost wheat
Investment World 
 
  
Why rents may head up
 
Pricey homes, more people working in cities and greater mobility will boost demand for rented homes. »
 
 
In search of cool solutions
When perception decides value 
Business Line seeks Analysts
ITC in a stellar uptrend
Teetering on the brink
Consider short straddle on Infosys
When promoters offload, Should you buy?
MCX reversing from support
Smartbuy 
 
  
Porsche Cayman 2013 Review
 
Regardless of what it manufactures, no company can be a one product wonder. Not even the world’s most profitable car maker. Porsche is synonymous with the 911 and the 911 has been synony... »
 
HTC One India review
Sony Xperia Z Review
Honda Amaze India Review
LG Optimus G review
 Your browser does not support iframes.
Get quote 
 Top Gainers / Top Losers
 Most Popular
Most Commented
Almost like home: Astronomers find Earth-like planets
Sehwag’s comeback won’t solve our problem: Mahela 
Fall in gold prices hurts foreign investors more than Indians
Kaspersky launches upgraded anti virus software
India is not imposing restrictions on investments: Chidambaram 
How rupee-dollar rates are determined
Ford showcases EcoSport in Hyderabad
Commodity Corner: Why are gold and silver falling?
Tendulkar’s wax statue to be unveiled at SCG tomorrow
Honda Amaze Review
Follow @Businessline
Resources
Budget 2013-2014 Speech of P. Chidambaram
Budget 2013-2014: Key Features
Budget 2013-2014: Finance Bill
DATA BANK 
Cross Currency Rate
 
Indian Rupees
Australian Dollar
Canadian Dollar
Danish Kroner
Euro
Hong Kong Dollar
Indonesian Rupiah
Japanese Yen
New Zealand Dollar
Norwegian Kroner
Pound Sterling
Singapore Dollar
South Korean Won
Swadish Kroner
Swiss Franc
Thai Baht
US Dollar
Chinese Yuan
Arab Emirates Dirham
Exchange Rate
Dollar Spot Forward Rate
Find the best Fixed Deposit Rates
Open-Ended Mutual Funds
MCX-SX Currency Futures
NSE Currency Futures
TEXT ADVERTISEMENT
Phone Cards
Columnists
Aarati Krishnan
Ashoak Upadhyay
B. S. Raghavan
C. Gopinath
C.P. Chandrasekhar and Jayati Ghosh
D. Sampathkumar
Ekalavya
G. Chandrashekhar
G. Parthasarathy
Gnanasekaar T
K. Kanagasabapathy
Mohan Murti
Narendar Pani
Rasheeda Bhagat
R Srinivasan
S. Murlidharan
T. C. A. Srinivasa Raghavan
Thomas K Thomas
Vidya Ram
   
Business Line:
Home
|
Today
|
News
|
Markets
|
Industry
|
Economy
|
Opinion
|
Companies
|
On Campus
|
Features
|
Money Wise
|
Blogs
|
Topics
|
Today's Paper
|
This Site:
About Us
|
Contacts
|
Archives
|
Subscription
|
RSS Feeds
|
Site Map
|
Brand Quest
|
ePaper
|
Social
|
BL Club
|
Mobile
|
Group Sites: The Hindu
|
Business Line
|
Sportstar
|
Frontline
|
Publications
|
eBooks
|
Images
|
Comments to: web.businessline@thehindu.co.in. Copyright © 2013, The Hindu Business Line.
