China Quake Kills Many and Injures Thousands - NYTimes.com




Subscribe:

Digital / Home Delivery


Log In
Register Now
Help



Home Page
Today's Paper
Video
Most Popular



Edition: U.S. / Global








Search All NYTimes.com












Asia Pacific





World
AfricaAmericasAsia PacificEuropeMiddle East 
U.S.
 
N.Y. / Region
 
Business
 
Technology
 
Science
 
Health
 
Sports
 
Opinion
 
Arts
 
Style
 
Travel
 
Jobs
 
Real Estate
 
Autos
















Deadly Chinese Quake Evokes Bitter Memories of 2008 Temblor 




Color China Photo, via Associated Press
A woman whose house was destroyed by an earthquake in Sichuan Province on Saturday. More Photos »

 

By 

JANE PERLEZ

Published: April 20, 2013    













QIONGLAI, China — The earthquake that shook Sichuan Province on Saturday struck at 8 a.m., when people were rising a little later than usual, and when schools and universities were closed.        



  
 Multimedia






Photographs



Devastation and Frustration in Aftermath of Quake







Connect With Us on Twitter
Follow @nytimesworld for international breaking news and headlines.
Twitter List: Reporters and Editors



Enlarge This Image










China Daily/Reuters
An aerial view showed houses damaged after an earthquake in China’s western region of Sichuan Province on Saturday.                            More Photos »




Enlarge This Image










Reuters
Residents sat outside houses damaged by a strong earthquake in the village of Longmen in China's Sichuan Province on Saturday.                            More Photos »




Enlarge This Image










Agence France-Presse — Getty Images
People gathered outside in Chongqing after the earthquake.                            More Photos »





“We were just getting up and getting dressed in our dormitory when the building shook and I looked outside from our seventh-floor window and saw a row of houses collapsed,” said Xu Yan, 22, a student at the Agricultural University in Ya’an, in a telephone interview. “I have never flown down the stairs so fast.”        
China’s Ministry of Civil Affairs, which has a role in disaster relief, said on its Web site that as of 9 p.m. in Beijing, the known death toll from the earthquake in Sichuan Province was 157, with most of the dead in Ya’an. The ministry also said that about 5,700 people had been injured.        
A reporter from the daily newspaper in Ya’an said on Sina Weibo, China’s Twitter-like service, that residents in Lushan County, which is one of Ya’an’s administrative subdivisions, needed tents, blankets, bottled water, food and medicine.        
The Ministry of Civil Affairs said that it had gathered more than 60,000 tents for residents unable to return to their homes, but that they would not reach the area until Sunday. Ya’an, which sits on a basin on the edge of the Tibetan plateau, has a population of 1.5 million.        
For residents of Lushan County, the epicenter of Saturday’s earthquake, the events evoked eerie memories of a devastating earthquake in May 2008 when more than 70,000 people were killed in Chengdu, about 70 miles east of Lushan.        
Saturday’s quake had a preliminary magnitude of 7, according to the Chinese authorities. The United States Geological Survey said that the earthquake occurred on the Longmenshan fault line, the same one responsible for the 7.9 magnitude quake in 2008. But more than 12 hours after the initial temblor, the impact seemed to be far less severe.        
Chinese radio quoted an unnamed official who said, “We have a basic grasp of the overall disaster situation, and there won’t be thousands or tens of thousands of fatalities.”        
Even so, Prime Minister Li Keqiang, probably mindful of the widespread criticism of the rescue efforts in 2008, flew to Lushan County and visited local hospitals.        
“The current most-urgent issue is grasping the first 24 hours after the quake’s occurrence, the golden time for saving lives, to take scientific rescue measures and save people’s lives,” Xinhua, the state news agency, quoted Mr. Li as saying.        
More than 7,000 soldiers and armed police personnel were deployed to the region, and the authorities said they were also sending 1,400 provincial rescue workers, 180 doctors from a national emergency response team, 120 “professional rescue vehicles” and 6 search-and-rescue dogs. Volunteers were mobilized from other parts of the country, and as a precaution, 80,000 inmates were evacuated from prisons in the affected area.        
Rescue efforts were hampered by landslides, and officials expressed concern over two barrier lakes that had formed after debris blocked two waterways.        
The tremors were felt in Chengdu, one of China’s biggest cities and the capital of Sichuan Province. Residents described water spilling out of home aquariums and big objects, like home water dispensers, falling to the floor.        
Yang Yubing, an executive at a sculpture factory in Baoxing County, one of the hardest-hit areas, said he was visiting Chengdu when he felt the tremors. He immediately left on a seven-hour drive to his home in Baoxing.        
But emergency workers stopped him when he got close to his apartment, Mr. Yang said. “They said five or six kilometers of roads were collapsed,” he said in a telephone interview. “We are all living in temporary tents in the school.” Badly injured people were transported to hospitals by helicopter, he said.        
In the town of Longmen, another hard-hit area within Ya’an’s jurisdiction, a resident, Zhang Yan, said 90 percent of the buildings had collapsed.        
“About 100 people died around here,” Ms. Zhang said in a telephone interview. “Rescue crews have not yet arrived. There is no water or electricity.”        
Xinhua quoted a hospital official who said scores of injured people were sprawled in front of the county hospital on Saturday afternoon. Firefighters in Lushan County pulled 27 survivors from collapsed buildings, Xinhua said.        
The 2008 quake raised questions about poorly constructed schools that collapsed and killed thousands of students.        
That earthquake prompted an extensive official relief effort and a passionate outpouring of volunteer help. But some quake-stricken residents and observers faulted the government for sending rescue efforts to the wrong places, or for failing to muster the equipment needed to lift victims from under slabs of concrete and brick. Instead, many troops and rescuers clambered over the rubble with sticks and spades.        
This time, the government appears intent on avoiding any accusations of laggardness, even if the quake was less destructive than the one in 2008. In one notable gesture, CCTV, the state broadcaster, posted photographs online of Mr. Li and other senior leaders sitting on a plane bound for Sichuan. State news media also said that Mr. Li and President Xi Jinping had convened an emergency meeting earlier in the day to coordinate rescue efforts.        
In 2008, officials restricted independent reporting on the disaster, but Ran Wang, a businessman, said he hoped officials would allow greater transparency this time. “No censorship, no cover-ups or control so the right of the people and society to be informed during natural disasters is respected,” he wrote on his microblog account.        
The Longmenshan fault line, which runs between the Tibetan plateau and Sichuan Basin, is seismically active. Twelve earthquakes with a magnitude of 5 or greater have occurred along the fault line since 1900, said Jiang Haikun, an official with the China Earthquake Administration.        
Sichuan Province is also one of China’s best-known habitats for pandas, and at the Bifengxia reserve, about six miles north of Ya’an, workers said that 20 pandas in the park were safe. “We inspected the panda area after the quake, and they were unaffected,” said Chen Yong, the media relations officer of the reserve.         
Andrew Jacobs contributed reporting from Beijing, and Chris Buckley from Hong Kong. Patrick Zhou contributed research from Qionglai, and Bree Feng from Beijing. 
 











A version of this article appeared in print on April 21, 2013, on page A8 of the New York edition with the headline: Deadly Chinese Quake Evokes Bitter Memories of 2008 Temblor.




 










Try unlimited access to NYTimes.com for just 99¢.  SEE OPTIONS »














Get Free E-mail Alerts on These Topics












Earthquakes






China








 











 

 







 

 

 



 

 




Impatiens under siege

      
      Also on NYTimes.com
      
    

Impatiens, and some alternatives
Would converting my basement into a man cave increase the resale value of my home?









 



 








 













 

            Inside NYTimes.com        








N.Y. / Region »




State Seeks Release of Report on Attica Uprising





Real Estate »




Way Out West




Opinion »
Editorial: Reaching an Arctic Accord
What ice once protected, it is now up to humans to protect.





Arts »




Pass the Salt, Dear. Now Let Me Look at That Cut.





Sunday Review » 



Opinion: What Do the Birders Know?





Arts »




From Wrinkles to Rap, a Rock Award’s Cast





N.Y. / Region »




Refuge From Egypt Unrest in Queens





Business »




A Pension Plan Funded With Cheese





Sports »




From Janitor to Rookie, Hitting 4th for Braves




Opinion »
The Score: The Music of ‘Flow’
For a composer, the concept of “flow” — being so involved in an activity that nothing else seems to matter — helps shape his work.





Style »




When a Pouf Skirt Said It All





Opinion » 



Op-Ed: Texas on Fire, Again and Again












© 2013 The New York Times Company
Site Map
Privacy
Your Ad Choices
Advertise
Terms of Sale
Terms of Service
Work With Us
RSS
Help
Contact Us
Site Feedback









