China earthquake shears off mountainsides, kills 186 people - CNN.com

         SET EDITION:  U.S. INTERNATIONAL MÉXICO ARABIC    TV:   CNN CNNi CNN en Español HLN      Sign up Log in                Home TV & Video CNN Trends U.S. World Politics Justice Entertainment Tech Health Living Travel Opinion iReport Money Sports    











SHARE THIS














Print
Email
More sharing


Reddit


StumbleUpon


Delicious











China earthquake shears off mountainsides, kills 186 people



By David McKenzie and Ed Payne, CNN
updated 11:53 AM EDT, Sun April 21, 2013










Military medical officers carry a patient to an ambulance at the hospital in Ya'an, China, on Monday, April 22, three days after a 7.0-magnitude earthquake hit China's southwest Sichuan Province. The death toll is rising as rescue works scramble to find survivors and bodies.




Chinese soldiers search for survivors on Sunday, April 21, in Lushan County.




A building in Ya'an is lopsided on Sunday.




Families rest at an emergency relief center in Ya'an on Sunday.




Rescuers evacuate an injured survivor onto a military helicopter on Sunday.




People cover their faces as rocks fall from mountains on their way home to Ya'an on Sunday.




A woman carries her baby through rubble in Lushan County in Sichuan, China, on Sunday, April 21. 




Survivors and rescuers make their way along a damaged area in Lushan on Sunday.




A family rests in a makeshift shelter in Lushan on Sunday.




Chinese residents sleep in open areas for fear of aftershocks in Sichuan Province on Sunday.




Chinese residents sleep in a car on Sunday to avoid danger from aftershocks.




Rescue workers distribute food on Sunday.




Rescuers dig through rubble in quake-hit Qingren township in southwest China's Sichuan Province on Saturday, April 20.




Residents rest near destroyed houses in Sichuan Province on Saturday.




A rescue car from Chengdu Military Region falls off a cliff into a river in Sichuan Province. Two of the 17 soldiers in the car had died by 11:30 p.m. Saturday Beijing time.




Rescuers carry a paralyzed patient from a collapsed house on Sunday in Qingren township. 




A woman walks on bricks fallen from a collapsed house Saturday in Longmen township.




Displaced children rest at an evacuation shelter in Baosheng township on Saturday.




Houses collapsed on the side of a road in Sichuan province.




Rescuers run through a road blocked by fallen rocks on Saturday. 




This photo taken on a helicopter shows the quake-destroyed houses in Taiping Town in Ya'an City on Saturday.




Medical workers pull an injured patient out of the emergency treatment room Saturday at a medical emergency center in Chengdu, the capital of Sichuan province.




A collapsed house sits in Gucheng Village. 




Rescuers head for Baosheng township on Saturday.




Rescuers sit on ruins of a house in Longmen, an area close to the epicenter of the earthquake.




People attempt to move a huge rock blocking the road to Longmen township on Saturday.




Residents help carry injured people to the hospital on Saturday in the city of Ya'an.




Rubble covers roadside houses in Longmen on Saturday.




Traffic passes debris in Chongqing on Saturday.




A girl gives offerings to the dead by the side of ruins in Longmen on Saturday.




A rescuer stands by a damaged building in Longmen on Saturday.




Huge rocks lie on a road in Longmen on Saturday.




HIDE CAPTION


Deadly earthquake strikes Sichuan, China
Deadly earthquake strikes Sichuan, China
Deadly earthquake strikes Sichuan, China
Deadly earthquake strikes Sichuan, China
Deadly earthquake strikes Sichuan, China
Deadly earthquake strikes Sichuan, China
Deadly earthquake strikes Sichuan, China
Deadly earthquake strikes Sichuan, China
Deadly earthquake strikes Sichuan, China
Deadly earthquake strikes Sichuan, China
Deadly earthquake strikes Sichuan, China
Deadly earthquake strikes Sichuan, China
Deadly earthquake strikes Sichuan, China
Deadly earthquake strikes Sichuan, China
Deadly earthquake strikes Sichuan, China
Deadly earthquake strikes Sichuan, China
Deadly earthquake strikes Sichuan, China
Deadly earthquake strikes Sichuan, China
Deadly earthquake strikes Sichuan, China
Deadly earthquake strikes Sichuan, China
Deadly earthquake strikes Sichuan, China
Deadly earthquake strikes Sichuan, China
Deadly earthquake strikes Sichuan, China
Deadly earthquake strikes Sichuan, China
Deadly earthquake strikes Sichuan, China
Deadly earthquake strikes Sichuan, China
Deadly earthquake strikes Sichuan, China
Deadly earthquake strikes Sichuan, China
Deadly earthquake strikes Sichuan, China
Deadly earthquake strikes Sichuan, China
Deadly earthquake strikes Sichuan, China
Deadly earthquake strikes Sichuan, China



<<
<





1





2





3





4





5





6





7





8





9





10





11





12





13





14





15





16





17





18





19





20





21





22





23





24





25





26





27





28





29





30





31





32


>
>>






STORY HIGHLIGHTS


NEW: 186 people are dead and 8,200 hospitalized, Chinese state media Xinhua reports
NEW: There's a dire need for drinking water, and people are awaiting evacuation, it says
Chinese Premier Li Keqiang travels to the area
The quake struck about 70 miles from the city of Chengdu in Sichuan




Lushan, China (CNN) -- A strong earthquake that struck the southwestern Chinese province of Sichuan this weekend has killed 186 people, sent nearly 8,200 to hospitals and created a dire dearth of drinking water, Chinese state-run Xinhua reported Sunday. Earlier reports had said as many as 11,200 people were injured.
The Sichuan Red Cross estimated that drinking water in Ya'an City will run out within three days despite rescue workers' efforts to deliver supplies to quake-hit area. In more remote areas, where the shifting earth muddied river waters, people anxiously awaited evacuation, Xinhua said.
Thousands of emergency workers, including soldiers, rushed to reach the affected zones in the hilly region, but their progress was impeded.
Huge mountain chunks near the quake's epicenter in Lushan County have sheared off and fallen into valleys. Boulders have landed on roads, making emergency work difficult. Buildings were flattened in the county, and others had severe structural damage.




Quake strikes China's Sichuan province.





See earthquake rattle China





Bride covers quake in wedding dress

Xu Mengjia, the Communist Party chief of Ya'an, the city that administers the area where the quake struck, told state broadcaster CCTV that because of landslides and disruption to communications, determining the total number of casualties will take some time.
The Chinese government allocated 3 million yuan (about $480,400) to rescue and relief efforts Sunday, a day after Chinese Premier Li Keqiang traveled to the area from Beijing, state media reported.
Li spent Saturday in Lushan County, leading the response near the quake's epicenter, then visited hospital patients Sunday, Xinhua reported.
Students gather outside to escape the quake
The quake struck just after 8 a.m. local time Saturday, about 115 kilometers (71 miles) from the provincial capital, Chengdu, at a depth of around 12 kilometers, according to the U.S. Geological Survey. There was conflicting information about the earthquake's strength, with the USGS putting the magnitude at 6.6 and the China Earthquake Networks Center gauging it at 7.0.
It was followed by a series of aftershocks, some of them as strong as magnitude 5.1, the USGS said.
Authorities have sent rescue workers to the area around the epicenter, briefly halting flights at the airport in Chengdu and suspending high-speed rail operations, state media reported.
The emergency response appeared to be substantial. Soldiers were seen heading into the area, while the government and Red Cross set up triage centers.
The event stirred memories of the devastating earthquake that hit Sichuan in 2008, killing more than 87,000 people.

 

First responders to Saturday's quake reported that the damage didn't appear to be as severe as what was seen after the 2008 disaster, according to CCTV.
Fan Xiaodong, a student in Chengdu, said that when buildings began to shake in the city, many of his startled classmates rushed out of their dorms, some of them wearing only the clothes they'd been sleeping in.
At first, Fan said, he only felt a slight trembling as he dozed in bed.
"I thought it was my roommates shaking the bed," he said. "But the shock became stronger soon, and it came to me that an earthquake happened."
The epicenter was in Lushan County, a district of Ya'an. That area is home to China's famous giant pandas and houses the country's biggest panda research center.
CCTV reported that the pandas at the facility, which is about 40 kilometers (about 25 miles) from the epicenter, were safe.
Residents of Chongqing, a sprawling metropolis more than 300 kilometers (about 190 miles) from Ya'an, said the quake also shook buildings there.
Are you there? Send your iReports

CNN's David McKenzie reported from Lushan, China. CNN's Ed Payne and Mark Morgenstein reported from Atlanta.






0
Comments »



SHARE THIS

















Print
Email
More sharing


Reddit


StumbleUpon


Delicious

















We recommend



From around the web




























Part of complete coverage on 
Inside China


CNN China





Check out CNN's latest news, commentary, photos, and videos on our China special section. 



Earthquake rattles Sichuan

updated 2:38 PM EDT, Sat April 20, 2013




Watch CCTV video from the earthquake that struck the southwestern Chinese province of Sichuan the past weekend.



Reporter works in wedding dress

updated 12:59 PM EDT, Sun April 21, 2013




A reporter in the middle of getting ready for her wedding left the make-up chair to cover the Sichuan quake.



Can social media clear the air?

updated 2:16 AM EDT, Fri April 19, 2013




China is literally choking on itself. This month, "On China" host Kristie Lu Stout looks at the problem of pollution.



On China: Overreliance on coal 

updated 5:15 AM EDT, Thu April 18, 2013




CNN's Kristie Lu Stout speaks with guests about the use of coal and renewable energy in China. 



Chinese student killed in Boston 

updated 10:37 PM EDT, Thu April 18, 2013




Like thousands of others, Lu Lingyu, a graduate student from China, crowded around the finish line at the Boston Marathon.



Fliers flee to high-speed trains

updated 2:11 AM EDT, Fri April 12, 2013




So fast were some high-speed Chinese trains that officials moved to slow them down. The result is perfect for frustrated fliers: affordable speed. 



Will North Korea listen to China?

updated 8:23 PM EDT, Mon April 15, 2013




Kim Jong Un has refused to listen to the international community, leaving many to wonder if anyone can appeal to the leader. All eyes are turned on China. 



Your reactions to Chinese tourism

updated 2:10 AM EDT, Fri April 12, 2013




We knew that reporting on the global impact of Chinese tourism would likely to generate strong reactions among readers.



Chinese tourists: The good, the bad 

updated 2:11 AM EDT, Fri April 12, 2013




It might be the biggest phenomenon to hit the global travel industry since the invention of commercial flight -- Chinese tourism. 



Zao Wou-ki: Painting beyond words 

updated 7:02 AM EDT, Fri April 12, 2013




Zao Wou-ki, regarded as one of the foremost Chinese contemporary painters of the 20th century, passed away this week at the age of 93.



iReport: Share your China stories





Share with us your photos and videos of life in China-- the everyday China. The best content could be featured online or on air.












NewsPulse

Most popular stories right now


Deficits are falling. For now





Next-generation ATMs boast video chat, exact change





U.K. may have slipped into a third recession





Solar jobs outnumber ranchers in Texas, actors in California





Netflix hopes for 'House of Cards' boost




Explore the news with NewsPulse »



























                     Home | Video | CNN Trends | U.S. | World | Politics | Justice | Entertainment | Tech | Health | Living | Travel | Opinion | iReport | Money | Sports Tools & widgets | RSS | Podcasts | Blogs | CNN mobile | My profile | E-mail alerts | CNN shop | Site map    CNN en ESPAÑOL | CNN México | CNN Chile | CNN Expansión العربية | 日本語 | Türkçe CNN TV | HLN | Transcripts |    © 2013 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Terms of service | Privacy guidelines | Ad choices | Advertise with us | About us | Contact us | Work for us | Help            








