NewsWires : euronews : the latest international news as video on demand
Skip to main content







English
Ελληνικά
Français
Deutsch
Italiano
Español
Português
Polski
Pусский
Українська
Türkçe
عــربي
فارسی




22/04/2013


Follow us
















euronews


News
European Affairs
Business
Special Reports
Sport
Culture
no comment
Sci-tech
Travel
In vogue



Africa
Americas
Asia
Europe
Middle East


Weather
Extras
All Programmes
















homeNewsWiresFrustration rises from rubble of China's deadly quake 















Frustration rises from rubble of China’s deadly quake








|





|



Reuters, 22/04 11:58 CET 
More NewsWires…

17:02 CET (Reuters) Up to 500 feared dead in Damascus suburb-activists
16:40 CET (Reuters) Egypt cabinet reshuffle to take place next week – prime minister
16:06 CET (Reuters) Five dead after shooting at apartment in Seattle suburb
15:56 CET (Reuters) In China, U.S. top military officer defends U.S. pivot to Asia
15:29 CET (Reuters) Afghan, Pakistan, U.S. to meet for talks in Brussels-Afghan…
15:20 CET (Reuters) Russia’s Putin calls for stimulus measures to boost growth
15:16 CET (Reuters) Second arrest made after India child rape but anger at police rises
15:13 CET (Reuters) Iran to meet UN nuclear watchdog in May -Iranian media
15:09 CET (Reuters) Spain’s population falls as immigrants flee crisis
15:05 CET (Reuters) New German anti-euro party could enter parliament, poll suggests
 
 By Michael Martina
LUSHAN, China (Reuters) – Hundreds of survivors of a 6.6 magnitude earthquake that hit southwest China, killing nearly 200 people, pushed into traffic along a main road on Monday, waving protest signs, demanding help and shouting at police.
“We are in the open air here. No place to sleep, nothing to eat. No one is paying any attention to us,” said Peng Qiong, 45, a farmer in Chaoyang village on the outskirts of Lushan, near the epicentre.
China has poured resources into Sichuan since the early Saturday quake, including 1 billion yuan (106 million pounds) from central coffers for disaster relief and compensation. About 18,000 troops are in the area.
The earthquake killed at least 186 people and injured more than 11,000, state media said.
But while many have praised the government for its swift response, growing anger among some underscores the government’s challenge, magnified by the fact that Sichuan bore the brunt of a 7.9 earthquake in 2008 that killed nearly 70,000 people.
In some cases, roads closed to non-emergency traffic have been clogged with all kinds of government vehicles.
On the way to Baoxing, a heavily damaged area about 40 km (25 miles) from Lushan, idling ambulances, troop transporters, construction vehicles and tour buses for relief workers blocked both lanes of the road, making access possible only on foot or by weaving motorcycles.
“NO CHOICE BUT PROTEST”
Tian Kuanqian surveyed a winding fissure that split the upper level of his house. For more than two days, the 40-year-old farmer has watched as emergency vehicles passed their wrecked village by.
“If they continue to ignore us like we are trivial, we will have no choice but to protest,” he said.
The back room hung of Tian’s house was torn from the building and perched on a steep slope. Inside, a poster of former revolutionary leader Mao Zedong hung above a collapsed wall. Tian’s family including elderly parents sleep on the ground.
“It’s been three days and we haven’t seen noodles or water. What we need are tents,” Tian said.
A police officer in Chaoyang trying to clam protesters on the road said the authorities were doing all they could.
“Our leaders have visited and we’re working getting these people food and water,” said the officer, who declined to give his name.
Mountainous terrain and poor infrastructure have made reaching victims difficult. The Xinhua news agency said aftershocks had triggered landslides that blocked a main road.
The damage to listed businesses in the area appeared limited. Toll road operator Sichuan Expressway said none of its roads were damaged, while motor-maker Dongfeng Electric said the quake did not cause any losses.
China Lumena New Materials Corp said none of its equipment in Sichuan had been damaged, while department store owner Maoye International said its subsidiary, Chengshang Group, whose principal business is in Sichuan, said all stores were operating normally.
In Zhongba village, part of Baoxing, residents said it took two days for help to arrive. When it did, supplies and tents were in short supply. Almost all buildings are damaged and many have collapsed.
Zhang Zhenghua, a 41-year-old farmer, said officials drove through the village on Monday and stopped briefly to apologise for the delay in help.
“The secretary mentioned subsidies to rebuild our homes. We hope they do what they say,” Zhang said.
(Writing by John Ruwitch; Editing by Robert Birsel)
euronews provides breaking news articles from Reuters as a service to its readers, but does not edit the articles it publishes.Copyright 2013 Reuters.


|





|
















euronews TV
euronews RADIO
Latest Bulletin



London,  United Kingdom



56°F
13°C

                   /
                   
48°F
9°C


More Weather…












Most Viewed
Most shared





TodayYesterday7 Days
1Five dead in Seattle shootout
2Boston bombing suspect regains consciousness
3Mother of Boston bombers says sons were ‘set-up’ by FBI
4Rape and torture of girl sparks furious New Delhi protests
5FBI seeks motive for Boston bomb attack1UK stripped of AAA rating by Fitch
2North Korea moves more missile launchers to its east coast
3Mother of Boston bombers says sons were ‘set-up’ by FBI
4Czech Ambassador: Chechnya Is Not Czech Republic
5Boston capture of Marathon bomber1Two deadly bomb blasts hit Boston marathon in terrorist attack
2Boston marathon bombing suspect captured alive but seriously injured
3Texas town virtually levelled by blast at fertiliser plant
4UK stripped of AAA rating by Fitch
5New YouTube sensation: “How Animals Eat Their Food”




Facebook
Twitter
























Podcast Get euronews podcast's directly to your desktop or MP4 player 



no comment




Iraq: Ashura celebrations
06/12/11 17:50 CET











economy




Kaesong: North Korea’s financial lifeline
03/04 16:32 CET










euronews


News
European Affairs
Business
Special Reports
Sport
Culture
no comment
Sci-tech
Travel






Visit us on

Facebook
Twitter
Google+
VK
Tumblr
Podcast
YouTube
DailyMotion





News

you
bulletin
Africa
Americas
Asia
Europe
Middle East
streaming live


Picture of the day



Sport

football results


no comment
Travel
In vogue
Extras

feedback
language lessons
podcast
rss
business guide
nocomment-tv
euronews live application
euronews radio: the podcast





Archives

2013
2012
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
2006
2005
2004


A - Z Site Index



account
Advertising
Business
Business Newswires
community
Contact euronews
Distribution
Jobs
Related links
News 24
NewsWires
All Programmes
Sci-tech
EU Coverage
Special Reports
Terms & Conditions
the station
Culture



Copyright © euronews 2013





Log in
Please enter your login details


Username
Password
Log in or Join the euronews community
Have you forgotten your password?





 











