
      Earthquake kills 157, injures 5,700 in China's Sichuan
| Reuters


 





 







Edition:
U.S.


Arabic
Argentina
Brazil
Canada
China
France
Germany
India
Italy
Japan
Latin America
Mexico
Russia
Spain
United Kingdom


















Home

Business



Business Home
Economy
Media
Small Business
Legal
Deals
Earnings
Business Video
The Freeland File
Aerospace & Defense
Investing & Taxes Simplified
Summits




Markets



Markets Home
U.S. Markets
European Markets
Asian Markets
Global Market Data
Indices
M&A
Stocks
Bonds
Currencies
Commodities
Futures
Funds
peHUB
Dividends




World



World Home
U.S.
Brazil
China
Euro Zone
Japan
Africa
Mexico
Russia
India Insight
World Video
Reuters Investigates
Decoder
Global Innovations




Politics



Politics Home
Supreme Court
Politics Video




Tech



Technology Home
MediaFile
Science
Tech Video
Tech Tonic




Opinion



Opinion Home
Chrystia Freeland
John Lloyd
Felix Salmon
Jack Shafer
David Rohde
Nader Mousavizadeh
Lucy P. Marcus
Nicholas Wapshott
Bethany McLean
Anatole Kaletsky
Zachary Karabell
Edward Hadas
Hugo Dixon
Ian Bremmer
Lawrence Summers
Susan Glasser
The Great Debate
Reihan Salam
Frederick Kempe
Mark Leonard
Steven Brill




Breakingviews



Equities
Credit
Private Equity
M&A
Macro & Markets
Politics
Breakingviews Video




Money



Money Home
Tax Break
Lipper Awards
Global Investing
MuniLand
Unstructured Finance
Linda Stern
Mark Miller
John Wasik
James Saft
Analyst Research
Alerts
Watchlist
Portfolio
Stock Screener
Fund Screener
Personal Finance Video
Money Clip
Investing 201




Life



Health
Sports
Arts
Faithworld
Business Traveler
Entertainment
Oddly Enough
Lifestyle Video




Pictures



Pictures Home
Reuters Photographers
Full Focus




Video



Reuters TV
Reuters News




























































Article
Comments (11)
Slideshow
Video

































Full FocusEditor's ChoiceOur best photos from the past 24 hours.   Slideshow Images of MarchDownload our Wider Image iPad app 







 Follow Reuters  Facebook Twitter RSS YouTube  

















					Read



Boston bombing suspects did not have valid handgun licenses

21 Apr 2013 
Five dead after shooting at apartment in Seattle suburb

10:04am EDT 
Hospitalized suspect in Boston bombings awaits charges
| 


10:53am EDT 
New York's JFK airport terminal briefly evacuated over package

21 Apr 2013 
Afghan Taliban say captured all onboard crashed helicopter

7:36am EDT 






					Discussed



224
Climate scientists struggle to explain warming slowdown
190
Senate backers of expanded gun background checks scramble for votes
151
Washington state florist sued again for refusal to service gay wedding





PicturesReuters PhotojournalismOur day's top images, in-depth photo essays and offbeat slices of life.  See the best of Reuters photography.  See more | Photo caption Photos of the weekOur top photos from the past week.  Slideshow China's rising consumerismRising disposable incomes are encouraging young adults in China to spend in ways decidedly unlike their parents.  Slideshow 





Sponsored Links






















Earthquake kills 157, injures 5,700 in China's Sichuan







Tweet





Share this

Email
Print




Related News


Earthquake jolts islands off northern Japan, no tsunami warningFri, Apr 19 2013Quake of 6.8 magnitude recorded off Papua New Guinea: USGSTue, Apr 16 2013Pakistan bears brunt of Iranian earthquake, 35 killedTue, Apr 16 2013Tremors from Iran quake kill 13 in Pakistan: officialsTue, Apr 16 2013Quake strikes off Papua New Guinea, no damage reportedSat, Apr 13 2013



Analysis & Opinion


Human rights lawyers look for silver lining in Kiobel black cloud

North Korea tells foreigners in South to get out now





Related Topics


World »
China »
Natural Disasters »




Related Video



Scores dead in China earthquake
Sat, Apr 20 2013


China quake reduces homes to rubble






















1 of 2. A view of a collapsed building with a sign reading, ''Lushan Kindergarden'' after a 6.6 magnitude earthquake hit southwestern China's Sichuan province is seen in this April 20, 2013 still image taken from TV. 
Credit: Reuters/China Central Television (CCTV) via REUTERS TV









By Michael Martina

Sat Apr 20, 2013 12:49pm EDT


YA'AN, China (Reuters) - China's worst earthquake in three years on Saturday killed at least 157 people and injured more than 5,700, the Ministry of Civil Affairs said.
The magnitude 6.6 quake hit a remote mountainous area of southwestern China's Sichuan province at 8:02 a.m. (0002 GMT), close to where an earthquake killed almost 70,000 people in 2008.The quake struck in Lushan county, near the city of Ya'an, at a depth of 12 km (7.5 miles), the U.S. Geological Survey said. It was felt in the provincial capital, Chengdu, and in neighboring provinces, causing many people to rush out of buildings, according to social network posts.Most of the deaths were concentrated in Lushan. Pictures on Chinese news sites showed toppled buildings and people in bloodied bandages being treated in tents outside the hospital. Water and electricity in the area were cut off by the quake.Premier Li Keqiang flew into the disaster zone by helicopter to voice support for the rescue operation."The first 72 hours is the golden period for rescue," Li told officials, the Xinhua news agency reported. "We cannot delay by a minute.""Under the strong leadership of the party and the government, as long as we unite as one, and conduct the rescue in a scientific way, then there will be the conditions and the ability to minimize the losses to the greatest degree and to overcome the disaster," Li said.Chen Yong, the vice director of the Ya'an city government earthquake response office, told reporters: "We believe the number (of deaths) could rise somewhat, but it won't rise by much."Xinhua said 6,000 troops were in the area to help with rescue efforts. State television CCTV said only emergency vehicles were being allowed into Ya'an, although Chengdu airport had reopened.Rescuers in Lushan had pulled 91 survivors out of rubble, Xinhua said. In villages closest to the epicenter, almost all low-rise buildings had collapsed, footage on state television showed."We are very busy right now, there are about eight or nine injured people, the doctors are handling the cases," said a doctor at a Ya'an hospital who gave her family name as Liu.The hospital was treating head and leg injuries, she said.The International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies said it was in discussions with the Red Cross Society of China on whether international support was needed.LANDSLIDE WARNINGThe China Meteorological Association warned of the possibility of landslides in Lushan county on Saturday and Sunday.Lushan recorded 789 aftershocks after the earthquake, the China Earthquake Administration said.A resident in Chengdu, 140 km (85 miles) from Ya'an city, told Xinhua he was on the 13th floor of a building when he felt the quake. The building shook for about 20 seconds and he saw tiles fall from nearby buildings.Ya'an is a city of 1.5 million people and is considered one of the birthplaces of Chinese tea culture. It is also the home to one of China's main centers for protecting the giant panda."There are still shakes and tremors and our area is safe. The pandas are safe," said a spokesman for Ya'an's Bifengxia nature park which houses more than 100 pandas.Shouts and screams were heard in the background while Reuters was on the telephone with the spokesman."There was just an aftershock, an aftershock, our office is safe," he said.Sichuan is one of the four major natural gas-producing provinces in China, and its output accounts for about 14 percent of the nation's total.Sinopec Group, Asia's largest oil refiner, said its huge Puguang gas field was unaffected.The U.S. Geological Survey initially put the magnitude at 7, but later revised it down. The devastating May 2008 quake was magnitude 7.9.In 2010, a 7.1 magnitude earthquake killed 2,700 people in Yushu, a largely Tibetan region in northwest China.(Additional reporting by Melanie Lee and Lu Jianxin in Shanghai, Sui-Lee Wee in Beijing and Stephanie Ulmer-Nebehay in Geneva; Editing by Jonathan Standing and Stephen Powell)

World
China
Natural Disasters







Tweet this


Link this

Share this

Digg this

Email
Reprints






























 





We welcome comments that advance the story through relevant opinion, anecdotes, links and data. If you see a comment that you believe is irrelevant or inappropriate, you can flag it to our editors by using the report abuse links. Views expressed in the comments do not represent those of Reuters. For more information on our comment policy, see http://blogs.reuters.com/fulldisclosure/2010/09/27/toward-a-more-thoughtful-conversation-on-stories/

Comments (11)


Blackbeered wrote:
        
“Strong quake hits China, 100 may be dead, injured.”
So that’s a story, Reuters?  Shame.
It could be zero dead, zero injured … and maybe no earthquake.  Or 0 dead, 100 injured … or 100 dead, nobody injured.
What a lame ‘story’ … what’s next “A Possible Earthquake May Be Making Its Way to LA by 2055 and fears are that Possibly 6 million dead or injured in the first 3 Minutes”?

Apr 19, 2013 11:19pm EDT  --  Report as abuse



jamesrwo wrote:
        
China, we will keep you in our thoughts.Hopefully many will be found safe.

Apr 19, 2013 11:19pm EDT  --  Report as abuse



ShiHeZiU wrote:
        
The data is different from chinese department,our authority said it’s magnitude 7.0.U.S. Geological Survey’data is more accurate than ours?

Apr 20, 2013 2:23am EDT  --  Report as abuse


See All Comments »
Add Your Comment







































 








 
 

 
 

 






  


Edition:
U.S.


Arabic
Argentina
Brazil
Canada
China
France
Germany
India
Italy
Japan
Latin America
Mexico
Russia
Spain
United Kingdom




Back to top














Reuters.com

Business
Markets
World
Politics
Technology
Opinion
Money
Pictures
Videos
Site Index

Legal

Bankruptcy Law
California Legal
New York Legal
Securities Law
Support & Contact

Support
Corrections


Connect with Reuters

Twitter  
Facebook  
LinkedIn  
RSS  
Podcast  
Newsletters  
Mobile

About

Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Advertise With Us
AdChoices
Copyright



 



Our Flagship financial information platform incorporating Reuters Insider



An ultra-low latency infrastructure for electronic trading and data distribution



A connected approach to governance, risk and compliance



Our next generation legal research platform



Our global tax workstation



Thomsonreuters.com
About Thomson Reuters
Investor Relations
Careers
Contact Us





Thomson Reuters is the world's largest international multimedia news agency, providing investing news, world news, business news, technology news, headline news, small business news, news alerts, personal finance, stock market, and mutual funds information available on Reuters.com, video, mobile, and interactive television platforms. Thomson Reuters journalists are subject to an Editorial Handbook which requires fair presentation and disclosure of relevant interests.
NYSE and AMEX quotes delayed by at least 20 minutes. Nasdaq delayed by at least 15 minutes. For a complete list of exchanges and delays, please click here.




































