Expect Limited Aftershocks for China’s Economy - Wall Street Journal - WSJ.com
Expect Limited Aftershocks for China’s Economy
The Ya’an earthquake comes as China wrestles with slower-than-expected growth and the risk of rising inflation. But the early signs are that the impact on the economy is likely to be limited.
Sichuan is one of China’s most populous provinces and occupies a strategic location as the gateway to the rapidly developing west. But it still punches below its weight economically, with output of 2.1 trillion yuan ($340 billion) in 2011, equivalent to about 4% of the national total.
Ya’an itself is some 120 kilometers from the provincial capital Chengdu, with an economy centered on tourism, agriculture, and natural resources – including a panda research center that moved there after the 2008 Sichuan earthquake. Local GDP in 2011 was just 35 billion yuan, a fraction of the regional total, according to data provider CEIC.
Sichuan’s massive 2008 earthquake cratered growth in provincial industrial output to 3.6% year-on-year in May of that year from 24.6% in April. Even then, national output growth was largely unchanged, and by August Sichuan had recovered close to previous levels.
With the Ya’an earthquake on a smaller scale, the impact on output is likely to be smaller too. Industry in Ya’an itself appears to be limited, and so far there are few reports of consequences for firms elsewhere in the region Toyota Motor Corp.  stopped production at a plant in the province Saturday as a result of the quake, but said it would resume production Monday.
Another potential concern is higher inflation. China’s food prices are threatening to rise again, and Sichuan accounts for 4.9% of China’s agricultural land. A disruption to supply could raise bills for China’s households. Again, the lesson from the 2008 earthquake is that the impact is likely to be limited. Back then neither national nor provincial consumer prices registered an impact from the earthquake.
Even if the immediate impact on output is limited, the regional economy could still benefit from the boost given by rebuilding. In 2009, China’s economy was hit by the global financial crisis, with growth slowing to 9.2% from 9.6% in 2008. But thanks in part to the boost to investment from rebuilding, Sichuan’s growth accelerated to 14.5% year on year, up from 11% in 2008.
“We’re bullish on Sichuan’s economy,” said Alistair Thornton, regional economist at HIS. “They are the pathway to China’s fastest growing region and they will continue to benefit from that. The earthquake is a tragedy, but it’s difficult to see it pushing development off course for long.”
–Tom Orlik w/ contributions from Zhoudong Shangguan  
WSJ
WSJ
Facebook
Twitter
MarketWatch
MarketWatch
Barron's
Barron's
SmartMoney
SmartMoney
AllThingsDigital
AllThingsDigital
FINS
FINS
More
WSJ X - Invitation Only
BigCharts
Virtual Stock Exchange
Financial News
WSJ Asia
WSJ India
WSJ China
                                                chinese edition
WSJ Japan
                                                japanese edition
WSJ Europe
WSJ Deutschland
WSJ Americas
en Español
em Português
WSJ Radio
WSJ Wine
The Wall Street Journal
Menu
Also in WSJ.com:
Share
Tweet
Latest Headlines
Latest Headlines is home to all the latest, up to the minute news headlines from The Wall Street Journal in a streaming continuous headline experience.
Top
                    Streaming Coverage
                            Reverse Order
                        
                          Keyboard: ↑
                          Keyboard: ↓
Days Active
Updates
211
69564
0 new posts
