BBC News - China quake: Rescue teams blast roads amid aftershocks






       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




China







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video


China
India


























22 April 2013
Last updated at 05:29 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





China quake: Rescue teams blast roads amid aftershocks









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























Dynamite and heavy equipment has been used to clear roads into remote villages, says the BBC's John Sudworth



 
Continue reading the main story Related Stories


Chinese teams reach quake-hit region


In pictures: Sichuan quake


History of deadly earthquakes



China is continuing a massive rescue operation in Sichuan province, deploying thousands of workers, after a powerful earthquake on Saturday. 
Rescue workers are using dynamite and heavy equipment to get through roads blocked by landslides to reach remote areas, reports say.
But reaching these areas has been a struggle, with bad weather and powerful aftershocks contributing to delays.
At least 188 people are known to have died in the quake, says state media. 
More than 11,500 others have also been reported injured since the 6.6 magnitude quake struck at 08:02 local time (00:02 GMT).
More than 18,000 soldiers and police have been mobilised in the rescue efforts, state news agency Xinhua said on Sunday.
Twenty-three helicopters from the armed forces were also being deployed to help out in the operations, Xinhua said on Sunday, quoting an official statement.
Seeking relief
Some of those who have been made homeless are complaining that they have not yet received food or water, says the BBC's John Sudworth in Sichuan province.


Rescue workers are finding it hard to reach remote places

Rescue teams had already reached the remote villages in mountainous Baoxing County on foot, but landslides were blocking access to aid trucks and preventing some of the casualties from being brought out.
Even in the more accessible areas of neighbouring Lushan county, the aid effort has been hampered by road congestion, our correspondent adds.
Officials have set up an outdoors hospital in Ya-an, the city closest to the epicentre. 
"The biggest problem is that the worst-hit spots are spread out in the mountains and it is very hard for rescuers to get the injured people out," said Zhou Shaohua, chief surgeon at the People's Hospital of Lushan.
"It takes hours for them to be able to reach a place where they can catch a vehicle."
"I dare not go anywhere near a mountainside," a woman named Zhu was quoted by Agence-France Presse news agency, in the village of Baoxing, centre of Lushan county, as saying.
"Many people are worried that the rain will bring more devastation."
Correspondents say the hill villages, where farmers grow rice, vegetables and corn on terraced plots, were hit the hardest by the earthquake.
Sichuan province was also devastated by a massive quake five years ago that claimed tens of thousands of lives and left five million without homes. 
Many of the collapsed buildings were schools and nurseries, leading to widespread criticism of local government's planning policies. 
Although on the same fault line, this earthquake was much less powerful than the previous one. 
Once again, though, it is the poor who have born the brunt of the disaster, with the biggest killer not the earthquake itself but poorly-constructed houses, our correspondent adds.




Are you in China's south-western province of Sichuan? Please send us your comments and experiences.







(Required)  Name




(Required)  Your E-mail address




(Required)  Town & Country




(Required)  Your telephone number






(Required)  Comments





If you are happy to be contacted by a BBC journalist please leave a telephone number that we can contact you on. In some cases a selection of your comments will be published, displaying your name as you provide it and location, unless you state otherwise. Your contact details will never be published. When sending us pictures, video or eyewitness accounts at no time should you endanger yourself or others, take any unnecessary risks or infringe any laws. Please ensure you have read the terms and conditions.
Terms and conditions
Send
Clear






More on This Story


Related Stories



Chinese teams reach quake-hit region

21 APRIL 2013,                                                
                                                CHINA



In pictures: Sichuan quake

21 APRIL 2013,                                                
                                                CHINA



History of deadly earthquakes

12 AUGUST 2012,                                                
                                                WORLD



Quake anniversary marked in China

12 MAY 2011,                                                
                                                ASIA-PACIFIC



Rebuilding China's quake-hit zone

11 MAY 2009,                                                
                                                ASIA-PACIFIC











Related Internet links


US Geological Survey




Around the BBC


Animated guide to quakes



The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites





Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More China stories
RSS




Girls poisoned 'over school rivalry'

Two young girls die in northern China after drinking yogurt allegedly poisoned by the owner of a rival kindergarten, state media report.



China bird flu is 'serious threat'




China media: Labour issues












Top stories



N Korea jails US man for 15 years


Somalia famine 'killed 260,000'


Kris Kross rapper Kelly dies at 34


Girls poisoned 'over school rivalry'


Obama to discuss trade in Mexico









Features & Analysis




Still in peak form Watch

US mountaineer, 83, retraces his historic climb of Everest  	
				  




Mobs of monks

Buddhists are pacifists - so why are they attacking Muslims? 	
				  




Ghost pueblos

The Mexican villages emptied by drug cartel killers 	
				  




Bones in the sand

Mystery of the 200-year-old soldier found in the dunes of Holland 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: Why are Buddhist monks attacking Muslims?



2: American settlers 'turned cannibal'



3: Kris Kross rapper Kelly dies at 34



4: Huge payout for US disabled workers



5: N Korea jails US man for 15 years



Read




1: N Korea jails US man for 15 years



2: Stuart Hall admits indecent assaults



3: Poisoned yogurt 'kills two' in China



4: German TV drops show over SS actor



5: Why are Buddhist monks attacking Muslims?



6: Scientists make 'bug-eye' camera



7: Kris Kross rapper Kelly dies at 34



8: Tablet computer sales are soaring



9: Boy killed sister with gun for kids



10: Mystery of the 200-year-old guardsman



Video/Audio




1: Chemical attack victim given new face Watch



2: Nasa images show sun eruption Watch



3: Shark net trials in South Africa Watch



4: Climber retraces historic Everest climb Watch



5: 'Told I could not fly because I'm blind' Watch



6: Kris Kross rapper Kelly dies at 34 Watch



7: Atoms in 'world's smallest movie' Watch



8: Retailer calls for Bangladesh action Watch



9: One-minute World News Watch



10: Cover to Cover: Book design in focus Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC



BBC Culture 

A global view on film, fashion, art, music and more















Programmes



Fast Track Watch

Rajan Datar finds out whether the Croatian capital, Zagreb can be a new centre of fashion




















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action
Editorial Guidelines




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





