 Weather, a major challenge in China - The Hindu















 Follow



 Today's Paper Archives Subscriptions RSS Feeds Site Map ePaper Mobile Social 










































SEARCH












Home News Opinion Business Sport S & T Features Books In-depth Jobs Classifieds IPL 


International 
South Asia World 

 




 International
» World




BEIJING,

April 21, 2013



Weather, a major challenge in China





Ananth Krishnan



Share  ·   
Comment
  ·  
print
  ·   

T+  ·   T-
  
 

 

 


  



  







AP Photo/Xinhua
This aerial photo shows destroyed houses after a powerful earthquake hit Taiping town of Lushan County in Ya'an City, southwest China's Sichuan Province on Saturday.






TOPICS
  World 
  China 

  natural disasters 
  earthquake 




At least 186 dead, 11,300 injured; 1,097 aftershocks recorded


The death toll from Saturday’s devastating earthquake in China’s southwestern Sichuan province rose by at least three dozen overnight, as rescuers battled to reach hundreds of people believed to be still trapped under debris in remote rural counties. 

The death toll from the 7.0-magnitude earthquake had risen to 193, up from 157 on Saturday night, with more than 10,574 people injured, as of 10.30 am (8 am IST) on Sunday, said the Department of Civil Affairs of Sichuan province. 

The earthquake struck the city of Ya’an, home to 1.5 million residents, in the Lushan county, located around 140 km from the provincial capital Chengdu. The impact of the earthquake was strong enough to rattle buildings in Chengdu and to be felt in as many as five surrounding provinces, with landslides reported in Yunnan province and at least one death reported in neighbouring Shaanxi. 

The rural areas of Sichuan, however, bore the brunt of the devastation. The worst hit regions were the predominantly rural counties of Longmen, Baoxing and Taiping, located near Ya’an. In Longmen, a township of 7,000 homes, as many as 5,000 houses collapsed, leaving hundreds trapped under the rubble. 

The remote location of the counties and landslides in the region have slowed down rescue and recovery work, with rescuers only managing to reach Baoxing on Sunday morning, a full 24 hours after the earthquake struck. 

Rescuers, mainly firemen, had to hike into the county because roads had been blocked, the official Xinhua news agency reported, suggesting that it will be difficult for authorities to move in heavy equipment to help clear the debris. More than 870 rescuers had been stranded en route, while relief vehicles were stuck in a traffic jam stretching for more than 7 km, Xinhua reported. 

In Baoxing, home to 58,000 people, 26 people have been confirmed killed and more than 2,500 injured so far. That number is expected to rise as more rescuers reach the isolated county and begin clearing the rubble. 

Ma Jun, the head of the county, told State media “almost every home” in the county had been damaged, with water, electricity and gas supplies cut off. Electricians from the provincial capital Chengdu were airlifted into Baoxing on Saturday night in an effort to restore the power supply. 

“The top priority is to save lives,” he said. “Meanwhile, we will resettle the residents and reopen roads.” 

The China Earthquake Administration (CEA) said on Sunday that as many as 1,097 aftershocks had been recorded, with three of them greater than 5.0-magnitude. 

Saturday’s earthquake struck parts of Sichuan that were still struggling to recover from a devastating earthquake in 2008 that left at least 90,000 people dead or missing. The CEA said the earthquake originated in the earthquake-prone Longmenshan fracture zone, where 12 major earthquakes of at least 5.0-magnitude have been recorded since 1900. Saturday’s earthquake, the CEA said, was “not expected to be as disastrous” as the 2008 earthquake 

Keywords: China quake, Sichuan province, Sichuan earthquake

 

 RELATED NEWS
 ‘Left-behind’ children bear brunt of quake   Pandas in quake-hit reserve unharmed   157 dead in Sichuan earthquake   Rifts remain in quake-hit Sichuan   
More In: World | International | News 

 

 



  



  




 





This article is closed for comments.Please Email the Editor  








































Most Popular
Most Commented




Indian wedding row in S Africa escalates, diplomat suspended
 
‘Dangerous times’ ahead for Europe?
 
China expects ‘quick’ resolution to Ladakh standoff
 
N.Korea hands U.S. citizen 15-year hard labour term
 
Visa ban on Modi should continue, says U.S. religious freedom panel 
 
We will stand by Syria: Hizbollah
 
Amid Gitmo force-feeding, Obama recommits to closure
 
38 killed in Russia hospital fire 
 
10 killed in Iraq attacks
 
Pyongyang says no to denuclearisation
 


‘Dangerous times’ ahead for Europe?
 
Indian wedding row in S Africa escalates, diplomat suspended
 
Conflict over recognition, not territory: Netanyahu
 
We will stand by Syria: Hizbollah
 
























Today's Paper 
ePaper
This Day That Age
Crossword
Archives
Obituary







Group Sites
The Hindu
Business Line Sportstar
Images
Frontline












 OPEN


close
Recent Article in World

Indian wedding row in S Africa escalates, diplomat suspended 	The row over the landing of a private aircraft on a military airport for a lavish Indian wedding in South Africa snowballed into a polit... » 



 

The Hindu:

Home |

News |

Opinion |

Business |

Sport |

S & T |

Features |

Books |

In-depth |

Jobs |

Classifieds |

IPL |

The Site:
|
About Us |
Terms of Use |
Privacy Policy |
Contacts |
Archives |
Subscriptions |
RSS Feeds |
Site Map 
Group Sites: 
The Hindu |
Business Line |
Sportstar |
Frontline |
Publications |
eBooks |
Images |


 Comments to: web.thehindu@thehindu.co.in
 Copyright© 2013, The Hindu

 








 
 


