BBC News - UK aid workers send supplies for China quake victims






       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




UK







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video


England
Northern Ireland
Scotland
Wales
UK Politics
Education


























20 April 2013
Last updated at 13:29 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





UK aid workers send supplies for China quake victims


Tents to provide temporary shelter are being sent as part of the relief effort


Continue reading the main story Related Stories


Scores die in rural China earthquake



British aid workers are sending life-saving supplies to those affected by the earthquake that has hit south west China, killing more than 150 people.
World Vision and the British Red Cross are distributing hygiene packs and clothing to families left homeless.
The 6.6-magnitude tremor left villages close to the epicentre in ruins.
Foreign Secretary William Hague has offered his "deepest condolences" to all those Chinese citizens affected by the quake.
He added: "I am saddened to hear of the tragic loss of life and destruction caused by today's earthquake in Sichuan Province in China.  

Continue reading the main story “Start Quote
"Repeated earthquakes hit affected people's mind hard and children, particularly, are most vulnerable."”
End Quote
Unni Krishnan
Plan China
 "Today's events will no doubt bring back terrible memories of the catastrophic earthquake in the same province in 2008. 
"My thoughts are also with the Chinese authorities and the emergency services as they continue their rescue efforts. We are in contact with local authorities through our Consulate-General in Chongqing and will continue to follow the situation closely."  
A British Red Cross spokesman said the charity was mobilising 5,000 kits of household items, 5,000 quilts, 5,000 warm jackets and 1,200 tents for the earthquake survivors.
International development organisation Plan International said it was sending supplies including more than 6,000 hygiene packs and 1,500 items of clothing.
Tents to provide temporary shelter are also being sent as part of the relief effort to help the thousands of people who have been injured.
'Urgent priority'
The earthquake struck the steep hills of Lushan county at 08:02 local time (00:02 GMT), triggering landslides and leaving thousands of homes destroyed.
More than 90,000 people were killed when a 7.9 magnitude earthquake struck the region in May 2008. World Vision said it then helped an estimated 2.2 million people rebuild their lives.
Plan China country director Mark Leighton said: "Meeting the needs of children is an urgent priority of our emergency response.
"There will be affected children in outlying and difficult to reach rural areas. Our emergency response team are heading to the worst-affected zones."
Its head of disaster response and preparedness, Unni Krishnan, said: "Repeated earthquakes hit affected people's mind hard and children, particularly, are most vulnerable."




More on This Story


Related Stories



Scores die in rural China earthquake

20 APRIL 2013,                                                
                                                CHINA








From other news sites


Daily Star  Hague 'saddened' over China quakeFull Story 2 hrs ago


Yahoo! UK and Ireland  China Quake: Over 11,000 People Inj 2 hrs ago


Telegraph  China: over 200 dead in Sichuan earthquake 6 hrs ago


ITV.com  China quake death toll rises 7 hrs ago


Sky News  China: Sichuan Earthquake Kills At Least 179 10 hrs ago


About these results







Related Internet links


British Red Cross 


World Vision


Plan International


Foreign Office



The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites





Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More UK stories
RSS




Boston remembered at London Marathon

A 30-second silence is held at the start of the London Marathon to remember Monday's bombings in Boston, as thousands line the streets to cheer on the runners.



Darling urges spending caution




No prosecution for tweet row girl












Top stories



US waits to question 'Boston bomber'


Chinese teams reach quake-hit region


Brazil police guilty of jail deaths


Boston remembered at London Marathon


Lufthansa in 'massive' cancellations









Features & Analysis




Unrecognisable

How the face of Syria has changed since the unrest began 	
				  




Leaving home

Why parents pine when children fly the nest 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: The student who caught out the profs of austerity



2: The mysterious powers of Microsoft Excel



3: CBS Twitter accounts are hacked



4: Escaping the train to Auschwitz



5: The pain when children fly the nest



Read




1: US waits to question 'Boston bomber'



2: Lufthansa in 'massive' cancellations



3: DiCaprio celebrates at gay awards



4: The mysterious powers of Microsoft Excel



5: Questions begin for FBI over Boston



6: Silence marks London Marathon start



7: The student who caught out the profs of austerity



8: China battles to bring quake aid



9: Brazil police guilty of jail deaths



10: Outcry over song for new Dutch king



Video/Audio




1: Thermal images show suspect in boat Watch



2: Brother was 'infrequent visitor' at Mosque Watch



3: Coach: Boston suspect was kind and smart Watch



4: 'My innocent sons were set up' Watch



5: Outcry over new Dutch King's song Watch



6: 30 seconds of silence for Boston Watch



7: Boston bomber suspect in custody Watch



8: Prince: 'Missing marathon not an option' Watch



9: 'I survived Boston and Texas blasts' Watch



10: US waits to question 'Boston bomber' Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC



Miniature motors 

The timeless allure of microcars - from the modern Smart to the Scootacar















Programmes



The Culture Show Watch

Meet the designer who wants people to 'hack' his work




















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action
Editorial Guidelines




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





