BBC News - China quake: Rescuers reach remote damaged villages






       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




China







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video


China
India


























21 April 2013
Last updated at 09:16 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





China quake: Rescuers reach remote damaged villages









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























A makeshift hospital has been erected outside amid fears of possible damage from aftershocks



 
Continue reading the main story Related Stories


In pictures: Sichuan quake


History of deadly earthquakes


Quake anniversary marked in China



Chinese rescue teams have reached some of the most remote areas of Sichuan province hit by Saturday's powerful earthquake, state media report.
The rescuers have been travelling on foot into Baoxing County because of the damage to roads in the isolated region. 
Communication networks are still disrupted, so the extent of the destruction is still unclear. 
State media say 207 people are dead or missing after the quake, and 11,500 are injured, 960 of them seriously.
More than 1,300 aftershocks have been felt in the area since the 6.6 magnitude quake struck at 08:02 local time (00:02 GMT) on Saturday, raising fears of possible landslides. 
Long traffic queues have also held up efforts to get aid supplies and volunteers to the affected areas.

Continue reading the main story 
“Start Quote
Throughout this high valley, in every village and settlement now, homes are smashed, rubble lies in the streets, and roofs have caved in... And everywhere too now, there is fear”
End Quote



Damian Grammaticas China correspondent





Read more from Damian

 Premier Li Keqiang is in Ya'an, the closest city to the epicentre, overseeing relief efforts, and told reporters that saving lives was the most important thing.
The BBC's John Sudworth in Ya'an says dozens of injured people are still being treated in a triage centre outside the main hospital.
Some villages close to the epicentre in Lushan and Baoxing counties were left in ruins.
One survivor, Yang Shanqing, said he had lost his family in the disaster.
"I tried to call my brother but could not get through. I ran back to the village and was told at the entrance of the village that my brother's house had collapsed," he said.
"I rushed here only to see a crowd of people trying to grab the family out of the ruins, but they failed."
At the Vatican, Pope Francis in his weekly address said his thoughts were with the people of China.
'Waiting in traffic'
China has received offers of help from countries including Japan, with which it is currently embroiled in a territorial dispute over an island grouping in the East China Sea.
Beijing said overseas help was not needed at the moment, but added that it would contact Tokyo if that changed.
Chen Yong, the vice-director of the Ya'an city government earthquake response office, said the death toll may not rise much more.
"We understand the situation in most areas. Most of the casualties have been reported," he said.
"In some remote mountain areas, it is possible that we don't fully understand the situation."
Correspondents say the hill villages, where farmers grow rice, vegetables and corn on terraced plots, were hit the hardest.
On Sunday, ambulances, fire engines and military lorries piled high with supplies were waiting in long lines along blocked roads in the province.


Dozens of survivors have been pulled from the rubble

Kevin Xia of the Red Cross said: "Supplies have had difficulty getting into the region because of the traffic jams. Most of our supplies are still on the way."
Another relief official told Reuters: "We really want to go in and help people, but instead we are waiting in traffic."
Our correspondent says the authorities have stopped issuing permits for journalists to enter the region, saying they are adding to the congestion.
In Longmen village in Lushan county nearly all the buildings were destroyed, officials said.
Rescuers had to dynamite boulders that had fallen across some roads, while overnight rain slowed rescue work.
A military vehicle carrying 17 soldiers came off the road, killing one soldier and injuring others.
Many thousands of people spent the night in tents or cars, unable to return home or too afraid to go back because of the aftershocks.
Sichuan province was devastated by a massive quake five years ago that claimed tens of thousands of lives and left five million without homes. 
Many of the collapsed buildings were schools and nurseries, leading to widespread criticism of local government's planning policies. 
But Mr Chen said that this had not happened this time.
"The Chinese government has put a lot of money into building schools and hospitals. I can guarantee that no schools collapsed," he said.







More on This Story


Related Stories



In pictures: Sichuan quake

21 APRIL 2013,                                                
                                                CHINA



History of deadly earthquakes

12 AUGUST 2012,                                                
                                                WORLD



Quake anniversary marked in China

12 MAY 2011,                                                
                                                ASIA-PACIFIC



Rebuilding China's quake-hit zone

11 MAY 2009,                                                
                                                ASIA-PACIFIC











Related Internet links


US Geological Survey




Around the BBC


Animated guide to quakes



The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites





Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More China stories
RSS




Fears for China activist nephew

The imprisoned nephew of blind Chinese activist Chen Guangcheng is suffering from appendicitis and has been denied medical parole, his father says.



Alibaba buys stake in China's Weibo




China media: Xinjiang arrests












Top stories



US President Obama news briefing Live


Dutch King Willem-Alexander sworn in


Kinky and Matilda lead Tony field


Central Damascus 'hit by explosion'


News companies warned by Twitter









Features & Analysis




Digital diversity Watch

The push to programme minority characters into video games 	
				  




Dame on the run

Ballerina Margot Fonteyn and the failed Panama coup 	
				  




Royal love story

How the Dutch people fell in love with Maxima, their future queen 	
				  




Quick fingers

Can you do the alphabet on your hands in five seconds? 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: Saturn hurricane is 12 times UK size



2: EU to ban pesticides in bee scare



3: 'Heart-healing virus' trial starts



4: Dutch King Willem-Alexander sworn in



5: Cern to re-create first web page



Read




1: Cern to re-create first web page



2: Dutch King Willem-Alexander sworn in



3: Netherlands Queen Beatrix abdicates



4:  Hapless attempt at parallel parking is internet hit



5: Queen Maxima: A royal love story



6: Saturn hurricane is 12 times UK size



7: Toba super-volcano catastrophe idea 'dismissed'



8: In pictures: Dutch Queen Beatrix abdicates



9: News companies warned by Twitter



10: Dame Margot Fonteyn and the Panama coup



Video/Audio




1: US President Obama news briefing  Watch



2: Parallel parking attempt is web hit Watch



3: 40,000-piece jigsaw collapses Watch



4: Spielberg presents Obama 'movie' Watch



5: Knox protests innocence on US TV Watch



6: Nine-year-old drives Ferrari Watch



7: Spaceship makes first powered flight  Watch



8: Dutch Queen Beatrix abdicates Watch



9: One-minute World News Watch



10: Guantanamo Bay detentions explained Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC



Suits you

How retailers are using tech to tailor your perfect fit - outside the fitting room















Programmes



Click Watch

How fitness technology is helping to turn footballers into super athletes




















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action
Editorial Guidelines




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





