Sikkim quake: Sonia Gandhi, Gadkari expresses concern | 359503





 

	




New User?    Register Now


   Home  

   Telly Buzz  

   Bollywood  

   News  

   Celebrity  

   Video

   Events

   Blogs  








Indian TV Index
Members Hall Of Fame
























  
		 
		
















Home »
News »
National »
Sikkim quake: Sonia Gandhi, Gadkari expresses concern



Sikkim quake: Sonia Gandhi, Gadkari expresses concern
			By Indo Asian News Service
 | Monday, September 19, 2011
 | 12:29:25 AM IST (+05:30 GMT)
   0 Comment







New Delhi, Sep 19 (IANS) Congress president Sonia Gandhi and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Nitin Gadkari Sunday expressed concern on the earthquake that hit several parts of the country.

New Delhi, Sep 19 (IANS) Congress president Sonia Gandhi and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Nitin Gadkari Sunday expressed concern on the earthquake that hit several parts of the country.

Gandhi, who expressed 'deep concern and anxiety', has urged authorities and the disaster management system to remain vigilant and extend all help to the affected areas, the Congress said in a statement.


Gadkari also expressed solidarity with the people affected by the quake in the northeastern region of the country.


At least 14 people were killed and at least 150 injured Sunday as a 6.8 intensity earthquake ravaged the Sikkim-Nepal border region, jolting large parts of India, Bangladesh and Nepal and causing widespread panic.





Do you like this article?





Copyright  Indo-Asian News Service

User Rating  (0 Votes)
Views  7





Prev Next








Readers Feedback & Discussion


Join India Forums for free to comment on this story. Have an account already? Login to comment.
	
	
	





News National Articles Index





India News Search (30)





  
                          







Articles in 
			National

Champions League matches likely to be shifted from Eden GardensIt was a great win: KallisKnight Riders edge past Auckland Aces in CLT20Sand artist creates image on earth quakeDivide in NDA on Modi: CongressQuake opens Bengal jail gates, but nobody escapesOmar Abdullah meets visiting Pakistani Kashmir leaderFour killed in Delhi road accidentsFederation Cup: Mohun Bagan bow out, Wahingdoh upset ChurchillCongress dismisses Jethmalani's submission against Patel



Most Discussed Recent Articles


Humble Sachin helps telethon raise Rs.7 crore for schools 1


National News



Art - Culture 
Business
Diaspora


Education

Health
Politics  


Religion
Sports
Sci-Tech 


Travel




AROUND THE WORLD NOW


Asia 
America 
Australia 


Africa
Europe
Gulf-Middle East


Pakistan 
Nepal 
Bhutan


Sri Lanka 
Bangladesh 
Maldives













Disclaimer: All Logos and Pictures of various Channels, Shows, Artistes, Media Houses, Companies, Brands etc. belong to their respective owners, and are used to merely visually identify the Channels, Shows, Companies, Brands, etc. to the viewer. Incase of any issue please contact the webmaster.






Quick Links : 
Top 100 TV Celebrities

Top 100 Bollywood Celebs

Development Team

About Us

Contact Us

Advertise

Forum Index

Terms Of Use | Privacy Policy
Powered by













Bollywood Celebrity 
Television Celebrity 








