Sikkim quake India's fourth in September




       Bookmark this site
 Editor@Kaumudi  |  Marketing   |  Print Advt rates  |   Calendar 2011   
          Kaumudi Sites
Kerala kaumudi
Kaumudi Flash
Kaumudi Weekly
Varandya Kaumudi
Kaumudi Europe
Kaumudi USA
Kaumudi Singapore
      

 
 
















 

switch to malayalam version
 



 


September 20, Tuesday 2011 8:26 AM      
 








 








 HOME   
KERALA   INDIA   WORLD  
BUSINESS   SPORTS   SCI & TECH   EDUCATION   AUTOMOBILE   CITY NEWS   MOVIES   ENVIRONMENT   LETTERS   



       HEADLINES:
          

 ‘Mathrubhumi’ daily’s high-tech printing facility inaugurated
                                            

 Judicial custody of Reddys extended till Oct. 3
                                            

 Vote-for-cash scam: Kulkarni fails to appear in court again
                                            

 PM announces Rs 2 lakh ex-gratia to earthquake victims
                                            

 Cash-for-vote: Jethmalani says money came from Ahmed Patel
                                            

 My fast is not votebank politics: Narendra Modi
                                            

 Eight killed in blast in Karachi 
                                            

 Kate Winslet and ITV1's Downton Abbey win Emmy awards
                                            

 Australian play on God Ganesha criticised
                                            

 Seven including a woman held in UK anti-terrorism operation
                                            

 Obama launches tax salvo at Republicans
                                            

 Won't demand much from tired players: Fleming
                                            

 Kochi handed suspension notice for defaulting on payment
                                            

 DRS not acceptable in its current form: Srinivasan
                                            

 I hardly have any time to teach my children, says Sachin
                                            

 Kochi owners mull legal action against BCCI
                                            






Kaumudi 

Facebook










        INDIA
Next Article: Veteran CPI leader C. Subramaniam passes away
 



        Sikkim quake India's fourth in September


 





          Posted on :23:31:46 Sep 18, 2011 



 
 


A A 
  





 





 



       Last edited on:23:31:46 Sep 18, 2011               








         Tags: Sikkim, fourth tremor, September






 
 

	NEW DELHI: The 6.8-magnitude earthquake in India's Sikkim state on Sunday evening was the fourth tremor reported in the country in September so far, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).

	There have been a total of 15 earthquakes of significance in India and its neighbourhood, as well as all over the world in September this year. The most high-intensity quakes of 7.0 on the Richter scale each were reported from the South Pacific island nations of Vanuatu (September 03) and Fiji (September 15).


	The first quake in India was reported in Manipur's Ukhrul district on September 04, and its intensity was 4.2. The second, on September 07, was also of low 4.2 intensity and epicentred in Haryana's Sonepat region. The tremors were felt in Delhi and most of north India.

	The third on September 11 was epicentred in Gujarat's Kutch region, but its intensity was a mere 3.4.

 





 







 
 


A A 
   





 








 



       INDIA




Next Article: Veteran CPI leader C. Subramaniam passes away









 












 










INDIA HEADLINES



Kannada Poet Chandrasekhar Kambar Bags Jnanpith Award        	
 


My fast is not votebank politics: Narendra Modi        	
 


Modi ends fast        	
 


Karnataka Lokayukta Shivraj Patil resigns        	
 


Modi refuses to put on 'skull cap' offered by Muslim cleric        	
 


Wife smashes husband to death with heavy stone        	
 


Court process against Madhur Bhandarkar in rape case        	
 


Cash-for-vote: Jethmalani says money came from Ahmed Patel        	
 


Jaya asks PM to halt Koodankulam nuke project        	
 


PM announces Rs 2 lakh ex-gratia to earthquake victims        	
 


Mamata to visit quake-hit north Bengal        	
 


Bomb scare on train in Rajasthan        	
 


President Patil visits Ajmer dargah        	
 


Tremors felt in parts of Maharashtra        	
 


Vote-for-cash scam: Kulkarni fails to appear in court again        	
 


Judicial custody of Reddys extended till Oct. 3        	
 


Two army jawans killed in quake in Sikkim        	
 


Quake toll climbs to 71, rescue work hampered by landslides        	
 


Twenty killed in Jharkhand road accident         	
 


Sikkim quake India's fourth in September 
 


Veteran CPI leader C. Subramaniam passes away        	
 


Modi fast: Sarabhai, riot victims detained        	
 


Gujarat senior police officer Sanjiv Bhatt chargesheeted        	
 


15 killed as powerful earthquake jolts northeast, Nepal        	
 


Number of phones, emails tapped by govt doubled in July        	
 

 







 












 


 






  




 
Do you agree with the BCCI’s action of terminating its franchise contract with the Kochi Tuskers Kerala?


Yes
 No
 Can't Say




 Results




 


 












 









Home  | Kerala  |  India  |  World  |  Business  |  Sports  |  Sci&Tech  |  Education  |  Automobile  |  CityNews  |  Movies |  Environment  |  Letters 


© Copyright keralakaumudi Online 2011  |  Reproduction in whole or in part without written permission is prohibited.
          Head Office Address: Kaumudi Buildings, Pettah P.O, Trivandrum - 695024, India.
          Online queries talk to Deepu Sasidharan, + 91 98472 38959 or Email deepu[at]kaumudi.com
          Customer Service -Advertisement Disclaimer Statement   |  Copyright Policy






