 Sikkim quake India’s fourth in September   News




Home
About


						Tuesday, 20 September 2011					
RSS





News One
News One : Mobile News for iPhone, Android and smartphones











Posted on 18th September 2011No Responses

Sikkim quake India’s fourth in September






New Delhi, Sep 18 (IANS) The 6.8-magnitude  earthquake in India’s Sikkim state Sunday evening was the fourth tremor reported in the country in September so far, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).
There have been a total of 15 earthquakes of significance in India and its neighbourhood, as well as all over the world  in September this year. The most high-intensity quakes of 7.0 on the Richter scale each were reported from the South Pacific island nations of Vanuatu (Sep 3) and Fiji (Sep 15).
The first quake in India was reported in Manipur’s Ukhrul district Sep 4, and its intensity was 4.2. The second, on Sep 7, was also of low 4.2 intensity and epicentred in Haryana’s Sonepat region. The tremors were felt in Delhi and most of north India.
The third on Sep 11 was epicentred in Gujarat’s Kutch region, but its intensity was a mere 3.4.
 




								Category : National, Top Stories.
								Tags: Crime-Disaster-Accident, Environment- Wildlife, New Delhi.


Syrian president warns against foreign interventionMamata woos voters through Rabindra sangeet






Recent News


UN appoints special representative for Libya
Franco to direct ‘Child Of God’
UN calls for over $350 mn to help flood-hit Pakistan
UN calls for over $350 mn to help flood-hit Pakistan
14 dead in China floods
Cowell plans ‘X Factor – The Musical’?
Beckham to buy Taylor’s jewellery for Victoria
Still no idea about Gaddafi’s whereabouts: NTC
Brangelina hire ex-SAS guards for protection
UN calls for over $350 mn to help flood-hit Pakistan
Beyonce launches House Of Dereon in Britain
Robbie Williams buys diamond-studded watch for wife
Robbie Williams buys diamond-studded watch for wife
US hegemony should end: Iran official
Robbie Williams buys diamond-studded watch for wife






Categories


Business

Entertainment

Health

International

National

Politics

Religion

Sports

Technology

Top Stories

Uncategorized





IANS Hindi

