
      Himalayan quake deaths rise as night falls
| Reuters






 







Edition:
IN


Africa
Arabic
Argentina
Brazil
Canada
China
France
Germany
Italy
Japan
Latin America
Mexico
Russia
Spain
United Kingdom
United States


















Home

Business



Business Home
Economy
Technology
Green Business
Business Traveller
Summits
Summit Notebook
Deals
Business Video
Company Results & Outlooks




Markets



Markets Home
India Markets
US Markets
Indices
Stocks
Stock Screener
Currencies
Commodities
Funds




India



Top News
India Insight




World



World Home
South Asia
Pakistan: Now or Never?
FaithWorld
World Video




Technology



Technology Home
MediaFile
Science
Tech Video




Opinion



Opinion Home
Chrystia Freeland
Felix Salmon
Breakingviews
The Great Debate
Expert Zone
India Masala
Money on the Markets
Financial Regulatory Forum
Macroscope
FundsHub
George Chen
Bernd Debusmann
Gregg Easterbrook
James Pethokoukis
James Saft
John Wasik
Christopher Whalen
Ian Bremmer
Mohamed El-Erian
Lawrence Summers




Money



Personal Finance
Alerts
Portfolio
Watchlist
Stock Screener
VantageTrade




Sports



Cricket
Soccer
Soccer blog
Golf
Motor Sports
Left field




Life & Culture



Lifestyle
Bollywood
Entertainment
Oddly Enough
Health
Arts
Lifestyle Video




Pictures



Pictures Home
Reuters Photographers
Full Focus




Video
























































Article
Comments (0)







































Himalayan QuakeQuake deaths rise as night fallsRescuers dug through mudslides on roads to isolated Himalayan villages in search of survivors after a 6.9 magnitude earthquake killed 63 people in India, Nepal and the Chinese region of Tibet.  Full Article | Video Slideshow: Quake hits Himalayas



Follow Reuters

Facebook
Twitter
RSS
YouTube







Most Popular
Most Shared









US to announce new China trade enforcement action

5:15am IST 
Iran nuclear chief says UK spies shadowed him

2:40am IST 
PETA to launch porn site in name of animal rights

19 Sep 2011 
Libyan forces say they captured part of Sabha

2:08am IST 
Bob Hope's wife Dolores dies at age 102

2:43am IST 









US to announce new China trade enforcement action

5:15am IST 
Gold Nano

19 Sep 2011 
Quake hits Himalayas

5:40am IST 
PETA to launch porn site in name of animal rights

19 Sep 2011 
Defunct NASA satellite to crash to Earth this week

6:49am IST 





REUTERS SHOWCASEAnything for AnimalsPETA to launch porn site in name of animal rights.  Full Article Forget the PastBCCI rules out England tour post-mortem.  Full Article Troubled FilmmakerPretti Jain case returns to haunt Madhur Bhandarkar.  Full Article Not ConvincingStrauss-Kahn apology seen contrived, staged.  Full Article Virtual GazingFashion app brings window shopping to the iPhone.  Full Article Expert ZoneFamily businesses and the brand - Wally Olins.  Full Article Pushed OutBCCI terminates IPL Kochi franchise.  Full Article Bollywood BuzzMadhuri Dixit to relocate to India.  Full Article 


















Himalayan quake deaths rise as night falls







Tweet



Link this

Share this



By Biswajyoti Das

    GUWAHATI (Reuters) - Rescuers dug through mudslides on roads to isolated Himalayan villages on Monday in search of survivors after a 6.9 magnitude earthquake killed 63 people in India, Nepal and the Chinese region of...


Email
Print






Related News


Magnitude 6.8 quake hits India, several deadMon, Sep 19 2011Taliban attack across Kabul, target U.S. embassyTue, Sep 13 2011Monsoon rains test cash-strapped Pakistan after 200 dieMon, Sep 12 2011Nate now a depression, oil contractors found in MexicoMon, Sep 12 2011UPDATE 3-Zanzibar vows stern action over ferry disasterSun, Sep 11 2011




Related Topics


Top News »




GalleryGold NanoA Tata Nano car decorated with gold, silver and gemstones.  Slideshow Primetime Emmy AwardsOktoberfestEmmy after partiesYemen uprisingSlideshow: Rebel Libya» Click here for more slideshows







Residents survey damaged buildings one day after a magnitude 6.8 earthquake struck Nepal, India and Bangladesh, in Bhaktapur, September 19, 2011. 
Credit: Reuters/Navesh Chitrakar






By Biswajyoti Das

GUWAHATI | 
        Mon Sep 19, 2011 7:20pm IST


GUWAHATI (Reuters) - Rescuers dug through mudslides on roads to isolated Himalayan villages on Monday in search of survivors after a 6.9 magnitude earthquake killed 63 people in India, Nepal and the Chinese region of Tibet.
    Soldiers and police pulled victims from rubble as night closed in and the number of victims climbed to 35 in the "Shangri-la" northeastern state of Sikkim, the epicentre of Sunday night's quake felt more than miles away in Delhi.    Air Force helicopters took supplies to affected areas, ringed by some of the world's highest peaks. Some mountain passes blocked by landslides were reopened and planes made two food airdrops, the home secretary said.    "The earthquake has loosened the hill-faces, and when it rains, it causes landslides. So the situation is still very dangerous," said Deepak Pandey, spokesman for the Indo-Tibetan Border police.    "We have rescued more than 400 people since last night," Pandey said. The rugged north of the state at the edge of the Tibetan plateau was worst hit.    It may take days for the final number of casualties to be confirmed but border police said they did not think the death toll would be on a massive scale.    At least seven died in Bihar, while six died in the West Bengal.    People in Sikkim's main city, Gangtok, sat on roadsides under umbrellas in the heavy rain and prepared for another chilly night -- reluctant to go home for fear of aftershocks.    "We are scared of another earthquake like last night, we have no place to stay, our house is damaged, and we can only pray to God now," Sushma Sharma, mother of three children in Gangtok, told Reuters.    It has been raining for four straight days in parts of Sikkim. The temperature in the quake zone was about 8 degrees Celsius (46 degrees Fahrenheit) and will drop overnight.    "Let's pray that the weather gets better," said army spokesman Om Singh.    Shops, businesses and offices were closed in Gangtok and neighbouring areas, another resident said. Many towns remained without electricity. Water supplies were scarce because of burst pipes and telephone communication was patchy.    For centuries a rarely visited Buddhist kingdom known for spectacular mountains and glacial lakes, Sikkim joined India in 1975. With 600,000 residents, it is the most sparsely populated state and borders Bhutan, Tibet in China and Nepal.    The state's economy boomed in recent years as it opened up to tourism and trade with China. Residents say landslides are a threat to hastily built new buildings in its mountain towns.    'PRAY FOR BETTER WEATHER'    The quake was felt in five countries including Bangladesh and Buddhist kingdom Bhutan.    Outside India, at least eight people died in Nepal, three of them when a wall at the British Embassy in Kathmandu collapsed on a car and a motorcycle. Seven died and hundreds were made homeless in Tibet, Chinese news agency Xinhua said.    More than a thousand Chinese soldiers were sent to help rescue efforts near the border.    Army officers and border police stationed near the epicentre of the quake in the north of the state, which has a large military deployment close to the Chinese border, said they were hopeful the death toll will not rise much more.    "The loss of life has not been much," said Ranjit Sinha, director general of Indo-Tibetan Border Police, whose foot patrols sent radio reports of casualties as they reached isolated villages.    Several hundred rescue workers and medics deployed by New Delhi were expected to arrive in Sikkim in the evening after soldiers cleared a landslide blocking the road from the nearest airport, 100 km (60 miles) away.    Sinha said many people were made homeless by the disaster.    "Even if casualties are low, there is likely to be a need for humanitarian assistance for affected civilians whose homes have been destroyed and who need food and shelter," said an official from the U.N's disaster management team in New Delhi.    More than a thousand people fled damaged homes to government shelters in Gangtok. More than 100 people were injured, while hundreds of tourists, Indian and foreign, were stranded for hours on the main road out of the state to West Bengal in the south.    The quake shook buildings as far away as New Delhi in India and Bangladesh.    Several earthquakes have hit north and east India this year, but none has caused major damage or injuries.    In 2001, a devastating earthquake in Gujarat killed at least 19,700 people and caused damage in neighbouring Pakistan. In 1934, an estimated 10,000 people died when a quake devastated Nepal and Bihar. (Reporting by Biswajyoti Das in Guwahati, additional reporting by Gopal Sharma in Kathmandu, Nita Bhalla, Arup Roychoudhury and Annie Banerji in New Delhi and Ben Blanchard in Beijing; Writing by  Frank Jack Daniel; Editing by Matthias Williams and Sugita Katyal) 

Top News







Tweet this


Link this

Share this

Digg this

Email
Reprints








 





We welcome comments that advance the story through relevant opinion, anecdotes, links and data. If you see a comment that you believe is irrelevant or inappropriate, you can flag it to our editors by using the report abuse links. Views expressed in the comments do not represent those of Reuters. For more information on our comment policy, see http://blogs.reuters.com/fulldisclosure/2010/09/27/toward-a-more-thoughtful-conversation-on-stories/

Comments (0)
Be the first to comment on reuters.com.
Add yours using the box above.



Social Stream (What's this?)





























 
 

 
 

 





  


Edition:
IN


Africa
Arabic
Argentina
Brazil
Canada
China
France
Germany
Italy
Japan
Latin America
Mexico
Russia
Spain
United Kingdom
United States




Back to top














Reuters.com

Business
Markets
India
Technology
Opinion
Money
Pictures
Videos
Site Index
Mobile

Legal

Bankruptcy Law
California Legal
New York Legal
Securities Law
Support & Contact

Contact Us
Advertise With Us

Connect with Reuters

Twitter  
Facebook  
LinkedIn  
RSS  
Newsletters





Our Flagship financial information platform incorporating Reuters Insider



An ultra-low latency infrastructure for electronic trading and data distribution



A connected approach to governance, risk and compliance



Our next generation legal research platform



Our global tax workstation



Thomsonreuters.com
About Thomson Reuters
Investor Relations
Careers
Contact Us



 


Thomson Reuters is the world's largest international multimedia news agency, providing investing news, world news, business news, technology news, headline news, small business news, news alerts, personal finance, stock market, and mutual funds information available on Reuters.com, video, mobile, and interactive television platforms. Thomson Reuters journalists are subject to an Editorial Handbook which requires fair presentation and disclosure of relevant interests.
NYSE and AMEX quotes delayed by at least 20 minutes. Nasdaq delayed by at least 15 minutes. For a complete list of exchanges and delays, please click here.






























