Sikkim quake toll rises to 35, rescue on war footing  | Firstpost



Would you like to make Firstpost your default homepage?   Yes   |   No








Tuesday, September 20th  08:21 AM IST

Facebook
Twitter
RSS


WEB18














#Sikkim#Narendra Modi#Emmys#anything4jetta


Firstpost


Economy | Investing
Mamma Mia! It’s Italy’s turn to drag down markets today…


Fwire | World
Libyan fighters capture airport near pro-Gaddafi city





Front page
Politics
World
Business
Economy
Investing
Life
Ideas
Bollywood
Sports

Tech
Blogs











Sikkim quake toll rises to 35, rescue on war footing

		  

		FP   Staff 
Sep 19, 2011

Follow @firstpostin

 #earthquake  #NDRF  #NewsTracker  #Sikkim










Email
Share




Comments





 Mumbai: Even as the Border Roads Organisation restored traffic on National Highway No. – 31 and stuck rescue teams are rushing to Gangtok from Bagdogra, the death toll in the earthquake that hit almost whole of north India, particularly Sikkim on Sunday evening, rose to 35, home secretary R K Singh today said. 
As per latest reports, two army personnel died near Zima, north Sikkim while 11 were injured.ITBP officials looking the cracks at a road after a high intensive tremor in North Sikkim on Monday. PTI
In a tragic incident, one BRO junior engineer was reported killed during a rescue operation.
The Ministry of Defence informed that 105 army columns are involved in the rescue operations and 2,000 affected people are accommodated in military shelters. The army are also running 11 community food centres, a ministry note said. In the Defence Ministry note that is also corroborated by the home secretary four Advanced Light Helicopters and five Cheetah helicopters are pressed into service. One MI-17 Helicopter at Bagdogra for distribution of food packets. 
Two MI-17 helicopters of the IAF carried relief material and National Disaster Relief Force (NDRF) to Lachen and Mangan, the interior regions of north Sikkim, the defence ministry said. 
A 20-member medical team from the Army Medical Corps (AMC) carrying 200 kg of essential medical supplies flew to Bagdogra from New Delhi today afternoon aboard an IAF Avro aircraf, the release said. The team comprises of four surgeons, seven orthopaedicians, five anaesthesians, two neuro-surgeon and two general medicine doctors.
An aerial survey was also conducted to assess the damage caused by the 6.8 magnitude earthquake with its epicentre on Indo-Nepal border in Sikkim, the press note said.
Another 100 volunteers of No.2 NDRF battalion and 8 tonnes of material was sent from Chandigarh to Bagdogra today morning. Two AN-32 aircraft from Delhi also joined the relief operations today, the defence ministry said. 
On Sunday night, two C-130J, one IL-76 and one Avro Aircraft left the National Capital Region on Sunday night carrying NDRF personnel, sniffer dogs, search and rescue teams and medical personnel.
In another development, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh declared sanctioned an ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh each from the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund to the next of kin of the persons deceased and Rs 1 lakh each to those who got seriously injured in the earthquake.



Email
Share




Comments (3)








See more
#Sikkim

Highway to Gangtok opened but North Sikkim still cut offSikkim's topography likely to make rescue operations difficult  Rescue teams, doctors yet to reach quake affected areas7 killed in Tibet as earthquake in India rocks China  









Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.











#
What next for Modi? Three hurdles on the way ahead 
Sep 20, 2011    
 Modi has emerged from his three-day fast with an enhanced profile. Yet, as he charts the next stage of his political journey, he is likely to face three challenges. 
 #BJP  #Gujarat  #Narendra Modi  #PoliticsDecoder


#NewsTracker
Karnataka Lokayukta Shivraj Patil tenders resignation 
Sep 19, 2011    

 The 71-year-old Patil, a former Supreme Court judge who was made Karnataka’s ombudsman on 3 August succeeding Santosh Hegde, called on Governor H R Bhardwaj and submitted the papers.
 #Justice Shivraj Patil  #Karnataka Lokayukta  #NewsTracker  #Santosh Hegde


#ModiFast
In regal show, event manager Modi dwarfs BJP top guns 
Sep 19, 2011    

 The Gujarat chief minister’s ascendancy in the party was on full show at his brilliantly orchestrated fast. Even leaders like LK Advani had to play second fiddle.
 #Bharatiya Janata Party  #ModiFast  #Narendra Modi  #Sadbhavana Mission


#PoliticalPlay
Thackeray politics: Why Modi will play an important role 
Sep 19, 2011    

 The Gujarat chief minister will be an important factor in the state’s political equations in future. His closeness to Raj Thackeray is likely to leave the Shiv Sena worried.  
 #Bal Thackeray  #Maharashtra  #Narendra Modi  #PoliticalPlay  #Shiv Sena


#ModiFast
The Modi manifesto: A speech that spells out a vision   
Sep 19, 2011    

 Modi said India needs to dream big. “China, US and the Europe think we are up to doing something. But India does not dream big. From where will the determination come? India needs realisation of the dreams and the country needs to be ready to move forward,” he said.
 #Gujarat  #ModiFast  #Narendra Modi  #Sadbhavna Mission


#NewsTracker
Highway to Gangtok opened but North Sikkim still cut off   
Sep 19, 2011    

 Army engineers have managed to clear large sections of the national highway allowing rescue teams to start for quake affected areas. However areas north of Gangtok remain cut off. 
 #earthquake  #Gangtok  #Nepal  #NewsTracker  #Sikkim  #Siliguri  #Tibet






















Editor's picks

Mon 09.19 Sun 09.18 Sat 09.17 Fri 09.16 Thu 09.15 Wed 09.14 







The Narendra Modi fast: All hail India's new Caesar!
The Narendra Modi show is like a Cecil B Demille film on India’s new Ceaser. And what he is offering is Ceaserism – the possibility of a popularly elected autocrat who can provide stability, efficiency and growth.




 

Problem is Rahul-flation: Why RBI is failing with rate hikes 
The battle over the RBI’s rate hikes is misplaced. It is the populist spending schemes of the UPA — intended to secure Rahul Gandhi’s future — that are driving inflation, not fuel or food prices. 




 

The importance of being Mallika Sarabhai
Her detractors say Mallika Sarabhai should just shut up and dance instead of spewing accusations against Narendra Modi. But Mallika Sarabhai was never very good at shutting up. And attacking her personal life isn’t going to make her go away either.




 

Is Anil Kumble the solution to India's problems?
The truth is that India’s problems aren’t just the selectors or other employees and for any real reform, the Board’s policies will need to change.








Modi denies fast is aimed at projecting himself as PM 
In an interview to CNN-IBN, Modi explains that he wants the Gujarat model of development to become the template for the whole of India. 




 

Modi's fast: A blend of politics, spirituality, spin and hype
 It’s a PR exercise planned and executed with the masterly precision. Modi came across as a brilliant event manager more than anything else. 




 

Monkey 2 is still streets ahead of experts in stock gain
Our two Monkey portfolios – a randomly selected list from BSE 100 and BSE 500 – are doing quite well, thank you. 




 

The  rollercoaster ride for gold  is far from over
Gold’s correlation to the stock market has become more positive, meaning it is more prone to move in tandem with equities than before






 

The rebranding of Narendra Modi gets under way
Modi’s tone and tenor ahead of the Sadbhavana Mission point to a leader who is conscious that a bigger political destiny awaits and who wants to present a “kinder, gentler” image of himself.   




 

A Chief Justice of India says "I am sorry" but 30 years too late
It’s big news when a former Chief Justice of India apologises for a judgement. But Justice P N Bhagwati’s apology for his role in a historic case during the Emergency is too little, too late and needs to be taken with a big grain of salt.




 

Facebook’s new ‘Subscribe’ button finally gives users control 
Seven years after launch, Facebook finally gives users control over whose updates they see in their stream, letting users follow another’s public updates without having to friend them. 




 

ODI cricket turned its back on Dravid, yet he created wonders
It was a form of cricket, which, no matter what the statistics say, never truly seemed to be his – and yet a form in which he performed and created wonders.








Subbarao to finmin: We're right on inflation, don't screw it
The Reserve Bank’s policy stance remains hawkish as inflation is far from being tamed. Governor Subbarao has stayed the course.




 

Modi's Gujarat best-placed to benefit from DMIC go-ahead
The UPA cabinet cleared the $90 billion Delhi-Mumbai Industrial Corridor. Gujarat is best placed to benefit from the investments. 




 

Google's Chrome Web Store comes to India: Our 5 fave apps
Google has launched its app store for its Chrome web browser in India. From games to tools to help you keep up with all of your social networks, we let you know our five favourite apps to help you get started.







Gora Panju vs kaali Madrasi blog wars: Ethnic stereotypes are so 20th century
All this blather about ‘dumb’ Punjabis or ‘ugly’ Tamilians is not just offensive, but also sadly outdated. We now have an urban tribe of professionals who have more in common with each other than with members of their community. 






 

Royal miss: Many of Kerala temple's treasures were stolen
The Sree Padmanabhaswamy Temple, whose treasures were recently rediscovered, appears to have lost some of its valuables, according to a Judicial Commission.







India can outpace China, but it needs a bit of 'Mao magic' 
A young population is India’s strength, but it still needs investments in human capital if it is to leverage them to economic advantage. Enter Mao Zedong…







'If Modi becomes PM, US will have to put out the red carpet'
American lawmakers and the State Department are being primed for the BJP’s possible return to power, with perhaps Modi at the helm. 







The kids will be all right: Calm down, parent less, play more
Throw away those parenting manuals. Stop being a parent martyr. The latest research says how we parent isn’t as important — or even as difficult — as we think it is. So drop those damn piano classes if the kids don’t enjoy them and have a lie-in on Saturday mornings. 








Naxals: Not Gandhians with guns but raw criminals    
It is easy to blame the governments in question for their failure to tackle Naxalism. But neither the Naxals nor their sympathisers look keen on a solution.




 

Renmin-mumbo-jumbo: the hype about China’s currency
The ceaseless chatter about the Chinese renminbi’s imminent rise as the world’s reserve currency is just so much hot air. 




 

It’s official: Federer has been reduced to an anachronism
Time has caught up with Federer and for the first time he has looked like a marginal presence. Next to men like Nadal and Djokovic, Federer looks feeble.




 

Gautam has left infinite memories in black-and-white and colour
Rajadhyaksha’s passing on 13 September, three days before his 61st birthday, has left indelible impressions on the people he worked with.






















About Firstpost
RSS
Newsletter
Twitter

Facebook





Verticals

Front page
Politics
World
Business
Economy
Investing
Living
Ideas
Bollywood
Sports



Trending

#Sikkim#Narendra Modi#Emmys#Premier League#Nitish Kumar



Topics

N Srinivasan
Mallika Sarabhai
GVK
Anant Pai
Rahul Dravid
Vasuki Sunkavalli
Gulbarg society massacre

View more



Copyright © 2011 Firstpost — All rights reserved
Terms of use
Privacy
Advertise







moneycontrol.com
ibnlive.com
in.com
tech2.com
cricketnext.com




























