Manasi Parekh : Manasi Parekh's Blog
ventures
Bollycurry
Telly Buzz
Meme4u
WassupTV
Zingmag
Mansi Parekh
Acting
Music
Photography 
Food 
Poetry
Travel
Thoughts
Scanner
About Me
Actor, Singer, yoga enthusiast, cook, amateur photographer, sometimes poet, now blogger and above all somebody who loves life to the fullest!! My life as an  actor/singer provides entertainment and variety and so I have a lot of things to talk about. Read on and enjoy...
 
Archives
April 2011
May 2011
June 2011
July 2011
August 2011
September 2011
 
Brand n Buzz
 
cyberax
 
Face Book
Home
Whiplash
Posted On:15 September 2011 at 12:00am
Comment: 29  |  View: 1626
Hello everybody...Am blown away by the number of comments I have been getting..The love that I am receiving makes me feel special and love is the drug that makes the world go round..So i am posting a new poem that I have written for all the lovers out there who pine for each other, desire each other and have such strong passions that every moment spent together becomes private,almost like a secret..like something that must be safeguarded from the world...My poem is called WhiplashCan I hold your hand?While we stand here in the sandThe little waves touching our curled toes. Can I touch your cheek?A slight smile is all I seekOr maybe the coarse hair on your thick lips. Can I grab your shirt?And stare at you till it hurtsCreasing your existence with my need. Let me just caress your chestAnd whip it with my open,dark hairEach lashing a reminder of stolen moments. 
Posted in: Poetry
The End Of A Journey....
Posted On:23 August 2011 at 12:00am
Comment: 54  |  View: 6849
				
So ladies and gentlemen this is the last week of shooting for my television show "Gulaal". Prime time daily on the biggest television networks in India (Star Plus) , run time of 212 half hour  episodes over a year. Gulaal changed my life and my understanding of work and with due modesty I feel privileged to have been the face of this show.A television show is never easy. More so for the lead actors. And the fact that Gulaal has been a very unconventional show in terms of the content and the making,made it even more of a challenge. For almost 365 days I have lived, breathed and consumed this character. Getting up at 6.30 am, getting everything sorted at home, rushing off to the studios in my car, getting into the make up room, having the scenes of the day laid out in front of me, getting into Gulaal mode, shooting, shooting, shooting and yeah some more shooting. That is all I have done. Surrender is the key to a show like this. I surrendered myself and in the process ended up becoming stronger, more experienced and wiser( if I may say so myself).There were moments when I felt that I had collapsed. I was close to nervous breakdowns at least thrice in the past year, owing to the pressure of working without breaks and in such intense emotional situations. But am glad I held my own because it made me realize my own potential and capacity.For an actor, a television show is a very personal journey. Even though you are being watched by millions across the world, every time you face the camera, you dig inside yourself a little deeper  and discover aspects of yourself that are unknown. In that sense the process is  very meditative and spiritual too.As I prepare myself for the outside world, the Un-Gulaal world, I feel like I am stepping out of a war zone. As the victor of course. I have been inundated with fan mails and messages from people across the world and it is really fascinating how much a good show can affect people.Thanks a lot to all the people out there for your comments and your dedication to my show. I will be a part of the entertainment industry always and will cherish your affection.And before I sound like one of those boring miss universe type models I must stop here. The sun is knocking at my door. I've got a  coffee- date with him. Ciao!
Posted in: Acting
Surprise Anniversary Trip To Rishikesh
Posted On:03 August 2011 at 12:00am
Comment: 22  |  View: 6575
As a surprise trip for our anniversary, my husband took me to Rishikesh this past April.  I was so excited to finally get some time off from the hectic shooting schedules of a daily soap.  I was in for quite a surprise as its only when we got to Deradhun that he revealed that we were heading towards Ananda Spa in Rishikesh.  He has seen the pressures of a daily show and so he thought this would be the perfect trip for me where I would get to travel as well as relax.Ananda Spa is such a beautiful place built in a 200-year old palace!  They have everything from detox plans to ayurvedic treatments for those with health problems.  From yoga to water and stone therapies and even amazing massages, there is just so much to do under one roof.  I love massages and so we tried to get all the massages we could, which was an absolutely great experience!An interesting experience for us was the organic snacks followed by the pool sessions!  We even had the opportunity to spot peacocks right outside our room.  I still can't forget the beautiful sight!  And yes having gone all the way to Hrishikesh how could we miss the river banks of the Ganges.  The river was truly majestic!  It makes you realize how small you are in the scheme of things!Being a big foodie, I just can not forget the food at the spa!  Not only was the food organic and but some of it was also grown in their own fields!  It was so wholesome and tasty!   In fact they even import particular fruits all the way from Paris and UK! It's the world's number one spa!This trip really was the best gift I could have gotten...
				
				Posted in: Travel
Wanted: Creative Indian Television Writers!!!
Posted On:20 June 2011 at 12:00am
Comment: 39  |  View: 4113
				
Hello everybody!! Haven't updated my blog in sometime so I apologize but work has been so hectic that there was just no way out. However I am back with a bang! Among the million thoughts that run in my mind, half a million are on television. And so was thinking about the current trends on Indian Television. Televsion has come a long way from the doorsarshan days and has become a serious mode of entertainment. Crores are spent on setting up shows and tv is no longer the poorer cousin of films. The biggest form of entertainment is the daily serial, followed by reality tv and music shows. But where are the sitcoms?? Am not talking about SAB tv shows that are more slapstick than situational, am talking about shows like Sarabhai vs Sarabhai, Yeh Jo Hai Zindagi, Wagle Ki Duniya, Office Office, Karamchand and so on.I personally don't watch serials on tv but love sitcoms. The one favorite channel I have is star world. How I met your mother, Two and a half men, family guy, simpsons, 30 rock, everybody loves Raymond, Frasier.. These are some of my favorite shows. And I was  wondering why we cannot have such witty, intelligent, fast paced and creative shows on Indian TV. And then I realized why!  One of the reasons is a paucity of good writers. Good writing is the key to a good show.  More so humor, because humor is very difficult to sustain.And currently it's really sad that the industry has so much money coming in but it isn't investing in good writing. Every person I meet these days either wants to be an actor or a director. Nobody really aims for writing.  Television writing is very very tough as every day is a new challenge and there are lots of interferences from the channel and of course TRP pressures.But the only way to beat mediocrity on indian tv is if writing is given the respect it deserves. An not propagating American tv as the final test of excellence ( they have their own share of crappy stuff) but if we just incorporate their respect for writers ( remember the Hollywood tv writer's strike) then television will surely get the direction it badly needs.Having said that I must say that the response to my show across the world has been quite overwhelming.  And thankfully audiences young and new are liking the show and my work in it. But to all the people who are reading this right now , indian tv needs creative writers. So any aspiring writers out there who think they can offer something to Hindi entertainment, get your ideas and come to Mumbai. Tv needs you!
Posted in: Scanner
Ten Things Men Should Understand About Women
Posted On:12 May 2011 at 12:00am
Comment: 74  |  View: 7713
				This is a fun, humorous but at the same time true column I had done for a paper and thought would share it with you all.  1)If we get angry, upset or cranky without reason don't say " baby is it that time of the month? " ( even if it could be).Women are moody, get it.2) We can bitch about our bestest girl friends one day and still go out shopping with them the next.We are like that only.3) If we ask " baby am I looking  good?" say yes. Every time.4)Don't praise our girlfriends too much. We are supposed to love  our gal pals. You just have to like them.5) Don't ever say we can manage without you. Because honestly you just can't.6) Expensive gifts and short trips are directly linked to our emotional centre in the brain. These things are essential for a woman's well being.7) No matter how much money we earn , we always want our man to earn more. See? We are submissive that way.8) No matter how progressive and modern we are, it's just not ok to hang out till late night with other women. It's not done.9) When you say " I love you" or " sorry" mean it. We have hound noses. We can detect when you don't mean it.10) If we love our man we can fight with the world to get him.
Posted in: Thoughts
