Debina : Gurmeet and Debina's Blog




ventures

Bollycurry
Telly Buzz
Meme4u
WassupTV
Zingmag


 Share this page on Facebook























Home








Lokpall Bill: A Win For India!

					Posted On:28 August 2011 at 12:00am


Comment: 287
View: 7310





Hey Guys,I am sure you all have been caught up in the news with Anna Hazare and the recent upheal regarding the Lokpal Bill!  Debina and I are extremely happy that finally the Lokpal bill has finally been passed.  Its definitely a step towards independence.  64 years ago Gandhi ji had fought for our country without any violence and Anna ji has done the same in this day and age with his continuous fast for 288 hours.  And we both feel proud that our country came together to support Anna.  Its a win of not only ahinsa but also a step towards freedom and independence in democratic India.  Three cheers for India!!!Love,Gurmeet & DebinaNOTE: THIS BLOG IS BEING MODERATED AND THUS COMMENTS MAY TAKE TIME TO APPEAR ON THE BLOG!



				Posted in: Blogosphere




The Recent Tragedy....

					Posted On:14 July 2011 at 12:00am


Comment: 288
View: 28890




Hi,I (Gurmeet) was shooting when I found out about the tragedy
that has hit Mumbai yesterday.  We
reached out to all my friends and loved ones but unfortunately phone lines were
jammed which made things worse.  We
want to request everyone to be careful and avoid highly populated and traffic
areas as our city is still under alert. 
Please be careful but at the same time don't let your life stop as we
have to move on...
Luv,
Gurmeet & DebinaNOTE: THIS BLOG IS NOW CLOSED FOR COMMENTS! PLEASE CHECK A NEWER ENTRY TO POST COMMENTS!



				Posted in: Blogosphere




Action Packed Days!!!!

					Posted On:10 May 2011 at 12:00am


Comment: 593
View: 19753




Hi Guys,
Thank you so much for the lovely
response you all are giving to Debina and my blog!  Today I want to share a day in my life with you all.  My mornings start at 6 AM as I get
ready to reach the sets by 7 AM for shoot.  I am shooting till about 7 PM after which I leave for home
and get ready for action classes! 
Yes you heard it right, action! 
Both Debina and I are currently learning action and I have to tell you
Debina is great at kicks and action as she has also in the past learned horse
riding.  Action classes are daily
Monday-Saturday and sometimes even Sundays.  And after action classes which are from 8 PM to about 10:30
PM, then I head to the gym or dance classes.  Three days a week I hit the gym and three days a week Debina
and I head over to dance classes together!  
It's a lot of fun as I really enjoy
action and dance!  The day ends by
reaching home by 12 AM after which I freshen up, have dinner and head off to
sleep.  Yes I am surviving on about
4-5 hours of sleep but that isn't bothering me much as I am all pumped up to
learn things I love.  Sometimes my
classmates in my action class tell me that they are amazed that after 12 hours
of shoot, I have the energy to come to action classes.  In all honesty, I love action and it
had gotten left out in the middle due to hectic schedules but I am so glad that
I am back to it.    
My schedule from the last two
months has been something like this and I am really loving it!  And yes I am also being extra conscious
with my diet as I now have Debina who labels my tiffin boxes with numbers and
timings on when I should be eating what during the day!  So I guess I am taking in the right
amount of protein, and having the right food to compliment the exercise and it
really feels great!
 
Love,
GurmeetNOTE: THIS BLOG IS NOW CLOSED FOR COMMENTS! PLEASE CHECK A NEWER ENTRY TO POST COMMENTS!



				Posted in: Blogosphere




Geet Completes 300 Episodes!!!

					Posted On:27 April 2011 at 12:00am


Comment: 660
View: 14300





Hi Everyone,Well its a special day and month indeed  First Geet completed one year this month and now, today, Geet has completed 300 Episodes!  It has been a very special journey with Geet so far.  The show has given me Maan Singh Khurana- a character with which people have laughed, cried and lived!  For me Maan has been a lot of fun as I have portrayed so many variations within this one role from a business tycon to a sardar.  In this one year I have lived the character of Maan and enjoyed myself thoroughly!I want to especially thank our producers Endemol and Gul Khan for having believed in me!  Audiences had seen me as Ram and it was Gul who was convinced that I would be the right actor for Maan Singh Khurana!  And this role has given me so much!  Thanks Gul for having the faith and conviction in me!  Also, there is a huge team behind brining you all Geet - from the creatives of the show to my coactors to the whole production team and so I want to thank all those involved in making this show!Its been a great journey so far and cheers to all our viewers as, YES, our show has completed 300 Episodes!  And here's hoping Geet has many such celebrations and centuries to complete in the future!  Thank you to all of you viewers and fans for having made our journey so special as its your appreciation that has made the journey with Geet and my journey with the character of Maan Singh Khurana so special!  Singing off...Yours,Maan Singh Khurana AKAGurmeet Choudhary NOTE: THIS BLOG IS NOW CLOSED FOR COMMENTS! PLEASE CHECK A NEWER ENTRY TO POST COMMENTS!



				Posted in: Blogosphere




A Lovely Bangkok & Pattaya Trip

					Posted On:26 March 2011 at 12:00am


Comment: 635
View: 18595





Hey Guys,Well first of all so sorry for writing to you all so late!  We have been reading all the lovely wishes sent by you guys for our marriage and want to thank you all from the bottom of our heart!  Shooting and hectic schedules have been keeping both of us so tied up but finally we took a vacation after our marriage and went off to Bangkok & Pattaya for six to seven days.  Pattaya was lots of fun as we spent most of the time on the beach!  Believe me, when we say that we relished the food there because while I love Sushi, Debina loves trying different foods.  And so everyday we would be arguying about the food we would eat   I think we were one of the few Indians there to be spotted at the pure Chinese and Thai places as both of us are just so fond of various varieties of Asian food.  For us it was all about exploring new things in Pattaya and we really enjoyed our small little adventures.      Where do I begin about our Bangkok excursions....well it was all about shopping as Debina loves to shop!  And I would wait around watching her shop....Sometimes I wonder why is it that girls have so many things to shop for?  Jokes apart, it was a fun experience though because you can literally shop till you drop in Bangkok!  We both are fully rejuvenated and I am back to work shooting for Geet!  Its been a great resting vacation for us.  We promise to be more regular and write to you all and thanks so much for all the love and support you guys keep showering on us!  Love,GurmeetNOTE: THIS BLOG IS NOW CLOSED FOR COMMENTS! PLEASE CHECK A NEWER ENTRY TO POST COMMENTS!



				Posted in: Blogosphere








About Us

Welcome To Our World - A world where we are meant to be together with eachother and with you guys!  There are somethings in life which just fall into place and are meant to be, like our relationship with eachother as well as with you guys!  Check out our blog and connect with us here!  We love you all!





Archives

January 2010
February 2010
March 2010
April 2010
May 2010
June 2010
July 2010
August 2010
September 2010
October 2010
November 2010
December 2010
January 2011
February 2011
March 2011
April 2011
May 2011
June 2011
July 2011
August 2011
September 2011







    




