
The Hindu : News / National : Quake rocks northeast, seven killed in Sikkim






Archives
Subscriptions
RSS Feeds
Site Map
ePaper
Mobile
Social






























SEARCH












Home
News
Opinion
Sport
Business
Arts
Life & Style
S & T
Education
Health
Classifieds
Today's Paper
Topics



International
National
States
The India Cables
The Pakistan Cables

  Cities:

 
Bangalore
Chennai
Coimbatore
Delhi
Hyderabad
Kochi
Madurai
Mangalore
Thiruvananthapuram
Tiruchirapalli
Vijayawada
Visakhapatnam




 





News
» National




New Delhi,

September 18, 2011



Quake rocks northeast, seven killed in Sikkim

P. Sunderarajan 
 PTI 



Share  ·  

Comment
  ·  
print
  ·   

T+  ·   T-
  






PTI
A child injured in a building collapse, following tremors in West Bengal, being treated at a hospital in Siliguri on Sunday.




Related

PHOTOS


 

 

 

 

 

SLIDESHOW
 

Quake jolts North East, Nepal







NEWS
Earthquake kills five in Nepal 3 feared killed in Darjeeling hills Two aftershocks jolt Gangtok Quake jolts North East, Nepal Met department warns of landslides in quake’s aftermath Govt to assess quake damage in Darjeeling Mild tremors in Idukki During quake, take cover under table or desk  Seven killed as quake rocks Tibet 





TOPICS
natural disasters
earthquake








The northern and eastern parts of the country were jolted on Sunday after a powerful earthquake hit the Sikkim-Nepal border with a magnitude of 6.8 at 6.10 p.m., leaving at least 17 persons dead and more than 100 injured, besides causing extensive damage to buildings and roads. 

The epicentre was about 69 km northwest of Gangtok, 119 km north-northwest of Siliguri and 272 km east of Kathmandu.


The main quake was followed by three significantly high aftershocks — 5.7 at 6.21 p.m., 5.3 at 6.42 p.m. and 4.6 at 7.24 p.m. Senior officials of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said more aftershocks were likely, considering the magnitude of the quake. 

Tremors were felt in Assam, Meghalaya, Tripura, parts of West Bengal, Bihar, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Chandigarh and Delhi.


Of the deaths, seven occurred in Sikkim, five in Nepal, three in the Darjeeling hills of West Bengal and two in Bihar, according to reports received here. 

Among the victims in Sikkim, two died at Singtham in East district, two in Rishi in West district and one at Mangan in North district, Chief Secretary Karma Gyatso said in Gangtok. Two army jawans were killed in north Sikkim, and three army vehicles including one with army personnel were reported missing, army officials said in Delhi.


Two buildings of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) collapsed in the Pegong area in north Sikkim, a senior official said. 

Official sources said the casualties could go up as the affected areas were in remote areas and there was not much information flowing in. In Sikkim, there were also reports of landslips as it was raining, and power supply was seriously disrupted. Mobile phone services were not functioning and only BSNL lines were working. 

Several buildings developed major cracks in the State and disaster management personnel were deployed, Mr. Gyatso said.


In Nepal, three of five deaths occurred outside the British Embassy in Kathmandu when a high brick wall collapsed.


A report from Bihar said an NTPC plant at Bhagalpur was shut down immediately after the quake as a precautionary measure. In the State, the two deaths, of a five-year-old girl and a youth, occurred in Nalanda and Darbhanga districts 

Following the disaster, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh called up Sikkim Chief Minister Pawan Kumar Chamling and offered all Central assistance. He directed Cabinet Secretary Ajit Kumar Seth to call an emergency meeting of the National Disaster Management Authority.


“The Prime Minister himself is monitoring the developments connected to the quake,” said Mr. Seth.


It has been decided to send four IAF aircraft to Bagdogra in West Bengal — two from the Hindon airbase, one from Palam and another from Kolkata — with personnel of the National Disaster Response Force equipped with all equipment. From Bagdogra, the personnel will be taken to Gangtok by road. This is being facilitated by the Border Security Force and the West Bengal Government, an official release said. 

The Army has started relief operations and a large number of civilians have been accommodated in army areas in Gangtok, Darjeeling and Kalimgpong.


After the earthquake, the Siliguri-Gangtok road has been blocked and 10 Army Engineering columns have been deployed to open it for moving rescue and relief and other engineering equipment to the region.


Keywords: Sikkim quake, North East earthquake, north India earthquake


























Comments:



                                   










Your Name:


                                  

email:
              
Make a comment



characters left

 


Comments will be moderated




















 
















Most Popular
Most Commented



Rescue work in full swing in Sikkim
Buddhist stupa discovered in Andhra Pradesh's Krishna district
Top BJP leaders to visit venue as Modi’s fast ends today
Quake jolts North East, Nepal
Fast was to showcase Gujarat's progress: Modi
Quake rocks northeast, seven killed in Sikkim
Amitabh visits Amar Singh at AIIMS
NIA probing Kerala link to Delhi blast
India to take up once again visa fee hike with the U.S.
Day in Pictures - September 19, 2011


I am not Gandhi: Anna Hazare 
India to back Palestinian bid for U.N. membership
It's wrong to say that I haven't felt the pain of riot victims: Modi
Chhattisgarh coal blocks a test case for acquiring tribal lands
ABVP threat to disrupt Binayak Sen's event
NIA probing Kerala link to Delhi blast
Advani endorses Modi for Prime Minister?
‘Self-reliance aiding Indian space research'
Six Lok Sabha MPs yet to declare assets
Both Lokpal Bills appear unworkable, CBI to tell panel 


















Today's Paper 
ePaper
This Day That Age
Crossword
Archives
Obituary







Group Sites
The Hindu
Business Line Sportstar
Images
Frontline


















About Us
Contacts
Archives
Subscriptions
RSS Feeds
Site Map


Home
News
Opinion
Sport
Business
Arts
Life & Style
S & T
Education
Health
Classifieds
Today's Paper
Topics


Group Sites

The Hindu
Business Line
Sportstar
Frontline


Publications
eBooks
Images





Disclaimer: The Hindu is not responsible for the content of external internet sites.
Republication or redissemination of the contents of this screen are
expressly prohibited without the written consent of The Hindu.
Comments to : web.thehindu@thehindu.co.in
  Copyright © 2011, The Hindu











