Terms and Agreement



Quicklinks:
                        Photo Gallery,
                                    Videos,
                                    Jagran.com






Find us on:
















Home


Nation


Politics


Crime


General News


Photo Gallery




World


Asia


Africa


Europe and America


Middle East and Others


Photo Gallery




States


North


South


East


West




Business


Economy


World


Companies and Products


IT and Market


Gold Price


Sensex




Sports


Cricket


Cricket World Cup


IPL-4 2011


Sportsperson


Other Sports


Photo Gallery


India Vs West Indies


India vs England




Entertainment


Movie Review


Photo Gallery




Lifestyle


Special


Editorial


Blogs




Champions League 2011







Home » 






Search












Terms and Agreement


User  Agreement 
These Terms of Use govern your use of the  websites, content and other services offered through http://www.jagranpost.com (“Site”) You  (the user) agree to access "the site", subject to the terms and  conditions of use as set out here. 
MMI may add to or change or update these  Terms of Use,   from time to time entirely at its own discretion. You are  responsible   for checking these Terms of Use periodically to remain in  compliance   with these terms. Your use of a Site after any amendment to the  Terms   of Use shall constitute your acceptance of these terms and you also   agree  to be bound by any such changes/revisions. 
 
Changes 
MMI reserves the right to suspend / cancel,  or   discontinue any or all channels, products or service at any time without    notice , make modifications and alterations in any or all of the   content,  products and services contained on the site without prior   notice.
 
Charges 
MMI reserves the right to charge  subscription and / or   membership fees from a user, by giving reasonable prior  notice, in   respect of any product, service or any other aspect of this Site. 
 
Copyright  and Trademarks 
Unless otherwise stated, copyright and all  intellectual   property rights in all material presented on the site (including  but   not limited to text, audio, video or graphical images), trademarks and    logos appearing on this site are the property of MMI Online ltd., its   parent,  affiliates and associates and are protected under applicable   Indian laws. You  agree not to use any framing techniques to enclose any   trademark or logo or  other proprietary information of MMI; or remove,   conceal or obliterate any  copyright or other proprietary notice or any   credit-line or date-line on other  mark or source identifier included on   the Site / Service, including without  limitation, the size, color,   location or style of all proprietary marks. Any  infringement shall be   vigorously defended and pursued to the fullest extent  permitted by law. 
 
Limited  Permission to Copy 
MMI grants you permission to only access  and make   personal use of the Site and You agree not to, directly or indirectly    download or modify / alter / change / amend / vary / transform / revise /    translate / copy / publish / distribute or otherwise disseminate any   content on  MMI’s Site / Service, or any portion of it; or delete or   fail to display any  promotional taglines included in the Site / Service   either directly or  indirectly, except with the express consent of MMI.   However, you may print or  download extracts from these pages for your   personal / individual,  non-commercial use only. You must not retain any   copies of these pages saved to  disk or to any other storage medium   except for the purposes of using the same  for subsequent viewing   purposes or to print extracts for personal / individual  use. 
MMI forbids you from any attempts to resell  or put to   commercial use any part of the Site; any collection and use of any    product listings, descriptions, or prices; any derivative use of the   Site or  its contents; any downloading or copying of account information   for the benefit  of any other merchant; any renting, leasing, or   otherwise transferring rights  to the Site / Service; displaying the   name, logo, trademark or other identifier  of another person in such a   manner as to give the viewer the impression that  such other person is a   publisher or distributor of the Service on the Site, or  any data   gathering or extraction tools; or any use of meta tags. You may not    (whether directly or through the use of any software program) create a   database  in electronic or structured manual form by regularly or   systematically  downloading and storing all or any part of the pages   from this site. 
No part of the Site may be reproduced or  transmitted to   or stored in any other web site, nor may any of its pages or  part   thereof be disseminated in any electronic or non-electronic form, nor    included in any public or private electronic retrieval system or service    without prior written permission. Requests to republish MMI’s material   for  distribution should be addressed to contact@jagranjosh.com
Individual Registration, Access and  Exchange of Information 
For certain services such as personal web  pages,   contests and shopping, registration by the visitor is required. To    register for these services you have to open an account by completing   the  registration process (i.e. by providing us with current, complete   and accurate  information as prompted by the applicable registration   form). You also will  choose a password and a user name. You are   entirely responsible for maintaining  the confidentiality of your   password and account. By registering, you agree to  the following terms   in addition to any other specific terms which shall be  posted at an   appropriate location of the Site. Each registration is for a  single   individual user only. 
To access these services, you will be asked  to enter   your individual User Name and Password, as chosen by you during your    registration. Therefore, we do not permit any of the following:- 
        	      •             Any  other person sharing your account and Password;
        	      •             Any  part of the Site being cached in proxy   servers and accessed by individuals who  have not registered with MMI as   users of the Site; or
        	      •             Access  through a single account and Password being made available to multiple users on  a network.
If MMI reasonably believe that an account  and Password is   being used / misused in any manner, MMI shall reserve the right  to   cancel access rights immediately without notice, and block access to all    users from that IP address. 
Furthermore, you are entirely responsible  for any and   all activities that occur under your account. You agree to notify MMI    immediately of any unauthorized use of your account or any other breach   of  security. MMI will not be liable for any loss that you may incur as a   result of  someone else using your password or account. However, you   could be held liable  for losses incurred by MMI or another party due to   someone else using your  account or password. 
 
No  unlawful or prohibited use 
As a condition of your use of the Services,  you will not   use the Services for any purpose that is unlawful or prohibited by    these terms, conditions, and notices. You may not use the Services in   any  manner that could damage, disable, overburden, or impair any MMI’s   server, or  the network(s) connected to any MMI server, or interfere   with any other party's  use and enjoyment of any Services. You may not   attempt to gain unauthorized  access to any Services, other accounts,   computer systems or to any of the  Services, through hacking, password   mining or any other means. You may not  obtain or attempt to obtain any   materials or information through any means not  intentionally made   available through the Services. 
 
Material  Posted/transmitted at MMI’s Site 
All information, data, text, software,  music, sound,   photographs, graphics, video, messages or other materials  (“Content”),   whether publicly or privately transmitted / posted, is the sole    responsibility of the person from where such content is originated (the    Originator). By Posting any material which contain images, photographs,    pictures or that are otherwise graphical in whole or in part    ("Images"), you warrant and represent that (a) you are the copyright    owner of such Images, or that the copyright owner of such Images has   granted  you permission to use such Images or any content and/or images   contained in  such Images consistent with the manner and purpose of your   use and as otherwise  permitted by these Terms of Use and the Services,   (b) you have the rights  necessary to grant the licenses and   sublicenses described in these Terms of  Use, and (c) that each person   depicted in such Images, if any, has provided  consent to the use of the   Images as set forth in these Terms of Use, including,  by way of   limitation, the distribution, public display and reproduction of such    Images. 
You represent that you have valid rights  and title in   any and all Content/Images that you submit on the Site, that you  have   not infringed on any IPR belonging to any party and further that you   will  indemnify MMI or its affiliates for all claims arising out of any   content that  you post on the Site. 
MMI accepts no responsibility for the said  Content /   Images. However, you understand that all Content / Images posted by  you   becomes the property of MMI and you agree to grant/assign to MMI and   its  affiliates, a non-exclusive, royalty free, perpetual, irrevocable   and sub-licenseable  right to use, reproduce, modify, adapt, publish,   translate, create derivative  works from, distribute, perform and   display such Content / Images (in whole or  part) worldwide and/or to   incorporate it in other works in any form, media, or  technology now   known or later developed throughout the world”. 
 
Limitations  of Liabilities 
Under No circumstances will MMI be held  responsible or   liable, in any way, for any content which in Legal opinion is    derogatory, threatening, defamatory, obscene or offensive or offends   public  sensibilities or morals and shall also not assume liability for   any errors or  omissions in any content, or for any loss or damage of   any kind incurred as a  result of the use of any content posted or   uploaded on the Site, or any infringement  of another's rights,   including intellectual property rights. You specifically  agree that MMI   is not responsible for any content sent using and/or included in  MMI’s   site/service by any third party. 
 
Termination  of Account 
MMI reserves its right to refuse service,  restrict,   suspend,terminate your account; (Terminate this Agreement; Terminate  or   suspend your access to the MMI’s Web Sites; Refuse, move or remove for   any  reason any Content / Image that you submit on or through the   Services; Refuse,  move, or remove any Content / Image that is available   on or through the  Services; Deactivate or delete your accounts and all   related information and  files in your account; Establish general   practices and limits concerning use of  the Services) at any time and,   remove or edit contents or cancel orders  (entered by you) in its sole   discretion with or without cause, and with or  without any prior notice   for any violation of the Terms of Use. Upon such  termination or   suspension, your right to use the MMI’s Web Sites will  immediately   cease. 
You can also terminate your account at any  time but your   information may remain stored in archive on our servers even  after the   deletion or the termination of your account. 
 
User  Conduct and Obligations 
You hereby agree and assure MMI that the  Site/Services shall   be used for lawful purposes only and that you will not  violate laws,   regulations, ordinances or other such requirements of any  applicable   Central, State or local government or any other international laws.  You   further concur that you will not, through Site/Service: 

        	      •             Post,  distribute, or otherwise make   available or transmit any software or other  computer files that contain   a virus trojan horses, time bombs, bots, botnets,  malicious content,   content theft, data manipulation, threats or any other  harmful programs   or elements or component.

        	      •             Delete  from the Site any legal notices,   disclaimers, or proprietary notices such as  copyright or trademark   symbols, or modify any logos that you do not own or have  express   permission to modify;

        	      •             Not  use the Site / Service in any manner   that could damage, disable, overburden, or  impair and not to undertake   any action which is harmful or potentially harmful  to any MMI’s server,   or the network(s), computer systems / resource connected  to any MMI   server, or interfere with any other party's use and enjoyment of the    Site/Service;

        	      •             Obtain  or attempt to obtain any materials   or information through any means not  intentionally made available   through the Site/Service.

        	      •             Engage  in any activity that causes / may harm minors; or

        	      •             Perform  any activity which is likely to cause such harm;

        	      •             Impersonate  any person or entity,   including, but not limited to, MMI’s official, forum  leader, guide or   host, or falsely state or otherwise misrepresent your affiliation  with a   person or entity.

        	      •             Take  any action which encourages or   consists of any threat of harm of any kind to  any person or property.
        	      •             Carry  out any "denial of service" (DoS,   DDoS) or any other harmful attacks  on application or internet service   or.
        	      •             Make  any inappropriate, illegal or   otherwise prohibited communication to any  Newsgroup, Mailing List, Chat   Facility, or other Internet Forum.

        	      •             Use  the Site/Service for illegal purposes.

        	      •             Disrupt,  place unreasonable burdens or   excessive loads on, interfere with or attempt to  make or attempt any   unauthorized access to any MMI website or the website of  any MMI’s   customer.

        	      •             Transmit  through the Site, any unlawful,   harassing, libelous, abusive, threatening,  harmful, vulgar, obscene,   libelous, hateful, or racially, ethnically or  otherwise objectionable   material of any kind or nature. This includes text,  graphics, video,   programs or audio, etc.

        	      •             Collect  or attempt to collect personally   identifiable information of any person or  entity without their express   written consent and you shall maintain records of  any such written   consent throughout the terms of this agreement and for a  period of 2   years thereafter.

        	      •             Engage  in antisocial, disruptive, or   destructive acts, including "flaming,"  "spamming," "flooding,"   "trolling," and  "griefing" as those terms are commonly understood and   used on the  Internet

        	      •             Forge  headers or otherwise manipulate   identifiers in order to disguise the origin of  any content transmitted   through the Site.

        	      •             Upload,  post, email, transmit or otherwise   make available any unsolicited or  unauthorised advertising, promotional   materials, "junk mail,"  "spam," "chain letters," "pyramid schemes,"    duplicative messages or any other form of solicitation.

        	      •             Encumber  or suffer to exist any lien or   security interest on the subject matter of this  Agreement

        	      •             Make  any representation or warranty on behalf of MMI.
You agree not to post, distribute, transmit  or otherwise   make available any data, text, message, computer file, or other    material that infringes and/or violates any right of a third party or   any  domestic or international law, rule, or regulation, including but   not limited  to: 

        	      •             Infringement  of any copyright, trademark,   patent, trade secret, or other proprietary rights  of any third party,   including, but not limited to, the unauthorized copying of  copyrighted   material, the digitization and distribution of photographs from    magazines, books, or other copyrighted sources, and the unauthorized    transmittal of copyrighted software.

        	      •             Right  of privacy (specifically, you must   not distribute another person's personal  information of any kind   without their express permission) or publicity.

        	      •             Any  confidentiality obligation.
        	      Unless otherwise permitted, you will: (i)  display the   Service on your Site in the exact form received by you, and not  modify   or edit any of the foregoing without MMI’s prior written consent; (ii)    ensure that the fundamental meaning of the Service is not changed or   distorted;  (iii) comply with all applicable laws and all limitations   and restrictions (if  any) placed by MMI on the use, display or   distribution of any Service and (iv)  not archive any of the Service for   access by users at any future date after the  Service has been removed   from your Web site. You acknowledge that the service  must link and   redirect to the appropriate MMI’s Web page when a user clicks on  the   Service (e.g. a headline). You shall not display the Service in such a    manner that does not allow for successful linking and redirection to,   and  delivery of, MMI’s Web page, nor may you frame any MMI’s Web page. 
 
No  Controlling Spam Policy or Unsolicited E-mails 
You will not use any communication tool or  other means   available on the Site to transmit, directly or indirectly, any    unsolicited bulk communications (including emails and instant messages).   MMI  will not sell, lease or rent its e-mail subscriber lists to third   parties. You  may not harvest information about users of MMI for the   purpose of sending or to  facilitate the sending of unsolicited bulk   communications. We may terminate  your access or use of the Site   immediately, with or without any notice, and  take any other legal   action if you, or anyone using your access details to the  Site,   violates these terms. We may adopt any technical remedy (including any    filtering technology or other measures) to prevent unsolicited bulk    communications from entering, utilizing or remaining within our computer   or  communication networks. Such filtering technology or other measures   may block,  either temporarily or permanently, some e-mail sent to you   through the MMI’s  Web Sites. 
 
Disclaimer  of Warranties and Liability 
MMI and its parent, affiliates and  associates shall not   be liable, at any time for any, direct, indirect,  punitive, incidental,   special, consequential, damages (including, without limitation,    damages for loss of business projects, damage to your computer system or    damages for loss of profits, damages for loss of use, data or profits,   arising  out of or in any way connected with the use or performance of   the MMI’s  sites/services, with the delay or inability to use the MMI’s   sites/services or  related services, the provision of or failure to   provide services, or for any  information, software, products, services   and related graphics obtained through  the MMI sites/services, or   otherwise arising out of the use of the MMI  sites/services) arising in   contract, tort or otherwise from the use of or  inability to use the   Site, or any of its contents, or from any act or omissions  a result of   using the Site or any such contents or for any failure of performance,    error, omission, interruption, deletion, defect, delay in operation or    transmission, computer virus, communications line failure, theft or   destruction  or unauthorised access to, alteration of, or use of   information contained on  the site. No representations, warranties or   guarantees whatsoever are made by MMI  as to the (a) accuracy, adequacy,   reliability, completeness, suitability or  applicability of the   information to a particular situation; (b) that the  service will be   uninterrupted, timely, secure, or error-free; (c) the quality  of any   products, services, content, information, or other material purchased or    obtained from the website will meet your expectations or requirements;   or (d)  any errors in the website will be corrected. 
 
Links  to Other Sites 
All the contents of this Site are only for  general   information or use. They do not constitute advice and should not be    relied upon in making (or refraining from making) any decision. Any   specific  advice or replies to queries in any part of the Site is/are   the personal  opinion of such experts/consultants/persons and are not   subscribed to by this  Site. The information from or through this site   is provided on "AS  IS" basis, and all warranties and conditions,   expressed or implied of any  kind, regarding any matter pertaining to   any goods, service or channel,  including without Certain links on the   Site lead to resources located on  servers maintained by third parties,   these sites of third party(s) may contain MMI’s-logo,  please understand   that it is independent from MMI, over whom MMI has no control  or   connection, business or otherwise as these sites are external to MMI.   You  agree and understand that by visiting such sites you are beyond the   MMI’s  website. MMI, therefore neither endorses nor offers any   judgement or warranty  and accepts no responsibility or liability for   the authenticity, availability,  suitability, reliability, accuracy of   the information, software, products,  services and related graphics   contained, of any of the goods/services/or for  any damage, loss or   harm, direct or consequential or any violation of local or    international laws that may be incurred by your visit and/or   transaction/s on  these site(s), as the same is provided on "as is"   without warranty of  any kind. MMI gives no warranty and makes no   representation whether expressed  or implied, that the information   contained in this site is error free. MMI  shall not be responsible nor   liable for any consequential damages arising on  account of your relying   on the contents of the advertisement. Before relying on  the material,   users should independently verify its relevance for their  purposes, and   should obtain any appropriate professional advice. 
 
Material  Submitted by Users 
Certain elements of the Site will contain  material   submitted by users. MMI accepts no responsibility for the content,    accuracy, conformity to applicable laws of such material. You will   indemnify  and hold harmless MMI against all third party claims, demands   and actions  brought against MMI which arises from or relates to the   material submitted by  you. 
 
Advertising  Material 
Part of the Site contains advertising  information or   promotion material or other material submitted to MMI by third  parties.   Responsibility for ensuring that material submitted for inclusion on    Site complies with applicable International and National law is   exclusively on  the party providing the information/material. Your   correspondence or business  dealings with, or participation in   promotions of, advertisers other than MMI  found on or through the   Website, including payment and delivery of related  goods or services,   and any other terms, conditions, warranties or  representations   associated with such dealings, are solely between You and such    advertiser. MMI will not be responsible or liable for any claim, error,    omission, inaccuracy in advertising material or any loss or damage of   any sort  incurred as the result of any such dealings or as the result   of the presence of  such non-MMI advertisers on the Website. MMI   reserves the right to omit,  suspend or change the position of any   advertising material submitted for  insertion. Acceptance of   advertisements on the Site will be subject to these  terms and   conditions. 
 
Data  Protection 
MMI may send information and offer products  and services   to you from time to time. For further details relating to our  policy   relating to such offer please refer to our privacy statement.    Notwithstanding the foregoing, MMI reserves the right to disclose any    information in response to / that it is required to be shared, disclosed   or  make made available to any governmental, administrative, regulatory   or judicial  authority under any law or regulation applicable to MMI. 
 
Further, MMI can (and you authorize MMI to)  disclose   your name, street address, city, state, zip code, country, phone    number, email, and company name to Intellectual Property right's owners,   as we  in our sole discretion believe necessary or appropriate in   connection with an  investigation of fraud, intellectual property   infringement, piracy, or other  unlawful activity. 
 
Relationship 
None of the provisions of the User  Agreement shall be   deemed to constitute a partnership or agency between you and  MMI and   you shall have no authority to bind MMI in any manner, whatsoever. 
 
Force  Majeure 
MMI shall have no liability to you for any  interruption or delay, to access the Site irrespective of the cause. 
 
Indian  Law 
The Agreement shall be governed by the Laws  of India.   The Courts of law at Delhi/New Delhi shall have exclusive  jurisdiction   over any disputes arising under this agreement. 
 
Entire  Agreement 
These Terms of Service constitute the  entire agreement   between the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof  and   supersedes and replaces all prior or contemporaneous understandings or    agreements, written or oral, regarding such subject matter. 
 
Right  to remove inappropriate messages 
We reserve the right to remove any messages  we deem to   be inappropriate, i.e, racist, sexist or threatening. Messages using    inappropriate language will also be removed. We do not wish to be   censors, but  our forums must remain civilized and respect the rights of   others. 
 
Limited  time to bring your claim 
You and MMI agree that any cause of action  arising out   of or related to the MMI’s web sites, only, must commence within  one   (1) year after the cause of action accrues otherwise, such cause of   action  will be permanently barred. 
 
Acceptance  of Privacy Policy 
By using MMI’s sites and services, you  signify your   acceptance of this Privacy Statement. If you do not agree or are  not   comfortable with any policy described in this Privacy statement, your   only  remedy is to discontinue use of MMI sites. We reserve the right,   to modify this  Privacy Statement at any time. 
 
General  Terms 
Rights and obligations under the Terms  which by their   nature should survive will remain in full effect after  termination or   expiration of the Terms. 
Any express waiver or failure to exercise  promptly any right   under the Terms will not create a continuing waiver or any  expectation   of non-enforcement. 
If any provision of the Terms is held  invalid by any law   or regulation of any government, or by any court or  arbitrator, the   parties agree that such provision will be replaced with a new  provision   that accomplishes the original business purpose, and the other    provisions of the Terms will remain in full force and effect. 
 
Notice  of Copyright Infringement 
MMI is not liable for any infringement of  copyright   arising out of materials posted on or transmitted through the site,  or   items advertised on the site, by end users or any other third parties.   Our  policy is to comply with all Intellectual Property Laws and to act    expeditiously upon receiving any notice of claimed infringement. If you   believe  that your work has been reproduced on this website in a manner   that constitutes  copyright infringement, please provide a notice of   copyright infringement  containing all of the following information: 
 
(a)A physical or electronic signature of a  person   authorized to act on behalf of the copyright owner for the purposes of    the complaint. 
        	      (b)Identification of the copyrighted work  claimed to have been infringed. 
        	      (c)Identification of the material on our  website that is   claimed to be infringing or to be the subject of infringing  activity. 
        	      (d)The address, telephone number or e-mail  address of the complaining party. 
        	      (e)A statement that the complaining party  has a   good-faith belief that use of the material in the manner complained of   is  not authorized by the copyright owner, its agent or the law. 
        	      (f)A statement, under penalty of perjury,  that the   information in the notice of copyright infringement is accurate, and    that the complaining party is authorized to act on behalf of the owner   of the  right that is allegedly infringed. 
 
All notices of copyright infringement  should be sent to: contactus@jagranpost.com
        	      Copyright Notice 
        	      Copyright ©2010 MMI Online Limited.. All  rights reserved. 
        	      This disclaimer/terms of service  notification is subject to change without notice.


A D V E R T I S E M E N T







Nation: National News

State: North |   South |   East |   West

Business: Economy |  World | Companies and Products |  IT and Market

Entertainment: Entertainment




World: Asia |   Africa |   Europe and America |   Middle East and Others 

Sports: Cricket |   Cricket World Cup |   Other Sports

Specials: Jagran Editorial | Jagran Blogs

Lifestyle: Lifestyle







Nation: National News

State: North |   South |   East |   West

Business: Economy |  World | Companies and Products |  IT and Market

Entertainment: Entertainment




World: Asia |   Africa |   Europe and America |   Middle East and Others 

Sports: Cricket |   Cricket World Cup |   Other Sports

Specials: Jagran Editorial | Jagran Blogs

Lifestyle: Lifestyle








Home | About us |  Advertise with Us |   Contact us


Site map |  Privacy Policy | Terms & Conditions







Copyright Info |   All Rights Reserved 























 