The country has given me more than post of PM: Advani
Quicklinks:
                        Photo Gallery,
                                    Videos,
                                    Jagran.com
Find us on:
Home
Nation
Politics
Crime
General News
Photo Gallery
World
Asia
Africa
Europe and America
Middle East and Others
Photo Gallery
States
North
South
East
West
Business
Economy
World
Companies and Products
IT and Market
Gold Price
Sensex
Sports
Cricket
Cricket World Cup
IPL-4 2011
Sportsperson
Other Sports
Photo Gallery
India Vs West Indies
India vs England
Entertainment
Movie Review
Photo Gallery
Lifestyle
Special
Editorial
Blogs
Champions League 2011
Home » 
Nation News » 
The country has given me more than post of PM: Advani
Search
The country has given me more than post of PM: Advani
Posted on: 21 Sep 2011, 09:07 PM
« Previous
Next »
Loading image. Please wait
I am not in race for PM: Advani
I am not in race for PM: Advani
 
Nagpur: Indicating that he may not be in the race for becoming the party's Prime Ministerial candidate in the next elections, senior BJP leader L K Advani on Wednesday said the Sangh Parivar, his party and fellow workers had given him "much more" than what the top post holds.
"I would only say that I first became a Swayamsewak (of the RSS), then a member of the Jan Sangh and then the BJP. I feel that what I have got from these organisations, from my fellow workers and what the country has given me is much more than the Prime Minister's post," he said.
He was replying to a question from reporters after meeting RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat.
There had been reports that the RSS is unhappy with Advani's plans of starting a yatra against corruption. This was being interpreted as the senior leader's attempt to throw in his hat for becoming the Prime Ministerial candidate of the BJP in the next general elections.
Asked if this was the motive behind his yatra, Advani said, "I am afraid these are not related."
Advani claimed he had come to Nagpur to seek Bhagwat's blessings for the yatra.
"I met the RSS Sarsanghchalak Mohan Bhagwat and asked for his blessings. He gave me his full support and blessings and wished him all the best for the yatra," Advani said.
He also met BJP president Nitin Gadkari and enquired about his health. Gadkari had undergone a bariatric operation on September 12 and is recuperating.
"The BJP president will come to Delhi on September 24. I have asked him to make the announcement about the yatra. By then, the plan details will also be chalked out," Advani said.
Asked about details of the yatra, Advani said October 11, which is the birth anniversary of veteran socialist leader Jaiprakash Narayan, was the tentative date. Sources said the yatra is likely to begin from Sitabdiara in Saran district of Bihar, which is the birth place of Narayan.
Advani made light of his meeting with Bhagwat, saying he keeps talking to him "informally".
"We meet whoever can make a big contribution to the yatra," he said.
The senior leader said he would go to BJP-NDA ruled states and insisted these were better governed than others despite having some shortcomings.
Advani said he was prompted to take out the yatra due to the 2008 cash-for-vote scam and the washout of the Winter Session of Parliament in 2010 over opposition demand for a Joint Parliamentary Committee probe into 2-G spectrum scam.
"But the precipitate action for the yatra was when our  two MPs who had exposed the dirtiest scandal- by acting as whistleblowers- were sent to jail though they did a good job and a great service to democracy," Advani said.
Advani maintained that in the Parliament, he had named Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee and Home Minister P Chidambaram and told them that if the two MPs were guilty and then he was "even more guilty" and they should send him too to Tihar Jail.
"This worst scandal of independent India is a big blot not only on the political system but also democracy as MPs were on sale and the government was ready to buy them even if it cost them crores," Advani said.
(Agencies)
« Previous
Next »
                Tags:
                Senior BJP leader LK Advani, advani rath yatra, advani not for PM post, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat
Related Articles:
PM concerned about ‘leakage’ than corruption: Advani - Date Posted: 14/12/10
PM post in India reserved only for a member of Nehru family: Advani - Date Posted: 26/06/11
Women get more upset than men post break up - Date Posted: 15/04/11
Pak has over 100 nukes more than India: US  - Date Posted: 31/01/11
Some 300 civil servants 'earned more than British PM' - Date Posted: 03/08/11
PM should come clean in all probes: Advani - Date Posted: 15/02/11
Advani endorses US report stating Modi may be BJP's PM choice - Date Posted: 16/09/11
Cash-for-vote scam: Advani defends partymen, says 'arrest me' if they are guilty - Date Posted: 08/09/11
Anna targets Manmohan for keeping PM post out of Lokpal ambit - Date Posted: 01/08/11
Americans value China more than India: Survey - Date Posted: 10/02/11
Post Comment
*Name : 
  
*Email ID : 
 
 (Your Email address will not be displayed) 
Type your comment here...
Top News
Latest News
Bird flu marks entry in West Bengal
Brick kilns to be shifted for war planes
Sajjan criticises MP CM’s China visit
Smart card to ameliorate traffic woes
Way paved for mining in 200 coal blocks
One-year long celebration for Malaviya
AIIMS invents drug to treat Alzheimer’s
MCD to issue health norms soon
BCB director questions Shakib's axing
Gayle uncertain about his future in WI
Japan Open: Saina, Kashyap in 2nd round
Ruhunu keep CLT20 semis chances alive
Armando faces opposition in extension
400 foreign tourists stranded in Sikkim 
Bird flu marks entry in West Bengal
HI lift 2 years ban on Sandeep, Sardara
Most Read
Most Commented
Nationwide ban on gutka products soon 
Noida land row: Allahabad High Court to start..
Quake toll climbs to 72; landslides, rains..
CLT20: KKR beat Auckland Aces by 2 runs
Additional construction at Commonwealth Games..
Ashamed to buy condom in public, purchase..
Graduates with minimum 45 percent marks..
MPs 'not ready' for social audit of MPLADS:..
Congress, BJP engrossed in tug-of-war over..
Railways parcel management to go online 
Nation: National News
State: North |   South |   East |   West
Business: Economy |  World | Companies and Products |  IT and Market
Entertainment: Entertainment
World: Asia |   Africa |   Europe and America |   Middle East and Others 
Sports: Cricket |   Cricket World Cup |   Other Sports
Specials: Jagran Editorial | Jagran Blogs
Lifestyle: Lifestyle
Home | About us |  Advertise with Us |   Contact us
Site map |  Privacy Policy | Terms & Conditions
Copyright Info |   All Rights Reserved 
 
