After Assam, Bird flu detected in West Bengal
Quicklinks:
                        Photo Gallery,
                                    Videos,
                                    Jagran.com
Find us on:
Home
Nation
Politics
Crime
General News
Photo Gallery
World
Asia
Africa
Europe and America
Middle East and Others
Photo Gallery
States
North
South
East
West
Business
Economy
World
Companies and Products
IT and Market
Gold Price
Sensex
Sports
Cricket
Cricket World Cup
IPL-4 2011
Sportsperson
Other Sports
Photo Gallery
India Vs West Indies
India vs England
Entertainment
Movie Review
Photo Gallery
Lifestyle
Special
Editorial
Blogs
Champions League 2011
Home » 
Indian States News » 
East India News » 
After Assam, Bird flu detected in West Bengal
Search
After Assam, Bird flu detected in West Bengal
Posted on: 21 Sep 2011, 08:46 PM
« Previous
Next »
Loading image. Please wait
Bird flu marks entry in West Bengal
Bird flu marks entry in West Bengal
 
Kolkata:  With the news of Bird Flu already doing the rounds in Assam, the Union government’s investigation has confirmed the flu in the Nadia district in West Bengal on Tuesday. The government has issued instructions to kill all chickens within three kilometre of the affected area and destroy poultry products like eggs.
The compensation will be provided for the damages by the Central and the State government in an equal ratio. 
The Union Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry, Dairying and Fisheries Department issued a statement confirming the flu after the detection of virus in the samples collected from two villages of Nadia district.
The samples were checked in the Kolkata and Bhopal laboratory which identified the H-5 virus of avian influenza. The instructions have been issued to kill all chickens within three kilometres of the affected area and to maintain vigilance within 10 kilometres of area.
The Central government has advised people not to visit the areas infected by the virus.
Expressing concern on the detection of bird flu in West Bengal, the Prime Minister has instructed the Animal Husbandry and Dairy Development Department to take significant measures to check its widespread in cooperation with the state government. The state government has also been asked to submit a daily report on the flu.(JPN/Bureau)
« Previous
Next »
                Tags:
                Bird flu in West Bengal, Bird flu in Assam, measures to prevent bird flu, how to prevent bird flu
Related Articles:
Will West Bengal paint green or red? - Date Posted: 13/05/11
Prone to flu? Blame it on your genes, say scientists - Date Posted: 26/08/11
Mamata crumbles Left Front in West Bengal; Jayalalithaa wave in Tamil Nadu - Date Posted: 13/05/11
West Bengal Assembly Election results - Date Posted: 13/05/11
West Bengal withdraws request for army  - Date Posted: 09/02/11
After West Bengal, Haryana gives some relief from fuel hike - Date Posted: 26/06/11
Paramiltary forces will stay in West Bengal even after poll results - Date Posted: 03/05/11
SUCI-TMC alliance ends soon after West Bengal polls - Date Posted: 17/05/11
Assam Assembly Election results - Date Posted: 13/05/11
Assam celebrates Bhogali Bihu - Date Posted: 15/01/11
Post Comment
*Name : 
  
*Email ID : 
 
 (Your Email address will not be displayed) 
Type your comment here...
Top News
Latest News
Bird flu marks entry in West Bengal
Brick kilns to be shifted for war planes
Sajjan criticises MP CM’s China visit
Smart card to ameliorate traffic woes
Way paved for mining in 200 coal blocks
One-year long celebration for Malaviya
AIIMS invents drug to treat Alzheimer’s
MCD to issue health norms soon
BCB director questions Shakib's axing
Gayle uncertain about his future in WI
Japan Open: Saina, Kashyap in 2nd round
Ruhunu keep CLT20 semis chances alive
Armando faces opposition in extension
400 foreign tourists stranded in Sikkim 
Bird flu marks entry in West Bengal
HI lift 2 years ban on Sandeep, Sardara
Most Read
Most Commented
Nationwide ban on gutka products soon 
Noida land row: Allahabad High Court to start..
Quake toll climbs to 72; landslides, rains..
CLT20: KKR beat Auckland Aces by 2 runs
Additional construction at Commonwealth Games..
Ashamed to buy condom in public, purchase..
Graduates with minimum 45 percent marks..
MPs 'not ready' for social audit of MPLADS:..
Congress, BJP engrossed in tug-of-war over..
Railways parcel management to go online 
Nation: National News
State: North |   South |   East |   West
Business: Economy |  World | Companies and Products |  IT and Market
Entertainment: Entertainment
World: Asia |   Africa |   Europe and America |   Middle East and Others 
Sports: Cricket |   Cricket World Cup |   Other Sports
Specials: Jagran Editorial | Jagran Blogs
Lifestyle: Lifestyle
Home | About us |  Advertise with Us |   Contact us
Site map |  Privacy Policy | Terms & Conditions
Copyright Info |   All Rights Reserved 
 
