Technocrat Sam Pitroda to modernise Indian Railways



Quicklinks:
                        Photo Gallery,
                                    Videos,
                                    Jagran.com






Find us on:
















Home


Nation


Politics


Crime


General News


Photo Gallery




World


Asia


Africa


Europe and America


Middle East and Others


Photo Gallery




States


North


South


East


West




Business


Economy


World


Companies and Products


IT and Market


Gold Price


Sensex




Sports


Cricket


Cricket World Cup


IPL-4 2011


Sportsperson


Other Sports


Photo Gallery


India Vs West Indies


India vs England




Entertainment


Movie Review


Photo Gallery




Lifestyle


Special


Editorial


Blogs




Champions League 2011







Home » 

Nation News » 

General News » 
Technocrat Sam Pitroda to modernise Indian Railways






Search











Technocrat Sam Pitroda to modernise Indian Railways


Posted on: 21 Sep 2011, 08:22 PM










« Previous


Next »




Loading image. Please wait
Sam Pitroda








Sam Pitroda
 



New Delhi: Close on the heels of an expert panel on safety last week, the Railways on Wednesday announced another one headed by technocrat Sam Pitroda to modernise the national transporter. “The entire world is looking at us,” said Railway Minister Dinesh Trivedi. “We want a big leap forward for the Railways.” He said Pitroda, who played a key role in revolutionising the telecom sector in India two decades ago, “will suggest ways to take the railways to the 4th generation technology”.Recalling the days, Pitroda said, “The task would be easier today as technology, qualified people and better systems are in place than in the 1980s.” The panel will outline strategies for modernisation of railways - with focus on tracks, signalling, rolling stock, stations and terminals - using information technology for improving efficiency and safety. “The need for railways will only increase in the coming decade,” said Trivedi. “We need revenue generation to expand and modenise as a service provider.” The panel is expected to submit a report by December this year. Besides Pitroda, adviser to the Prime Minister on information innovation, other members of the panel are HDFC Bank Chairman Deepak Parekh, former State Bank of India Chief M.S. Verma, IIM-A faculty G Raghuram, IDFC Managing Director Rajiv Lal and economist Vinayak Chatterjee.(Agencies)


« Previous


Next »



                Tags:
                Sam Pitroda to help modernise Railways, Indian Railways to be modernized, modernization of Indian Railways, condition of railways in India







Related Articles:



Sam Pitroda creation sends waves in American mobile market - Date Posted: 06/08/11


Innovation key to solve India’s problems: Sam Pitroda - Date Posted: 05/05/11


IT committee for baseline study; to set up working groups - Date Posted: 17/09/11


‘Smart meters’ to help monitor power consumption in India soon - Date Posted: 16/05/11


Defence Minister unhappy with pace of armed forces modernisation   - Date Posted: 15/12/10


Indian ministers to grace mini Pravasi Bharatiya Divas - Date Posted: 31/05/11


India to spend USD 1 billion on internal security modernisation - Date Posted: 13/07/11


Indian Railways celebrates 158 years of its completion - Date Posted: 16/04/11


Indian Railways to hire around 3 lakh people  - Date Posted: 05/02/11


Vacant posts affect services of Indian Railways - Date Posted: 07/06/11









Post Comment




*Name : 


  


*Email ID : 


 


 (Your Email address will not be displayed) 




Type your comment here...
















Top News
Latest News




Bird flu marks entry in West Bengal


Brick kilns to be shifted for war planes


Sajjan criticises MP CM’s China visit


Smart card to ameliorate traffic woes


Way paved for mining in 200 coal blocks


One-year long celebration for Malaviya


AIIMS invents drug to treat Alzheimer’s


MCD to issue health norms soon






BCB director questions Shakib's axing


Gayle uncertain about his future in WI


Japan Open: Saina, Kashyap in 2nd round


Ruhunu keep CLT20 semis chances alive


Armando faces opposition in extension


400 foreign tourists stranded in Sikkim 


Bird flu marks entry in West Bengal


HI lift 2 years ban on Sandeep, Sardara









Most Read
Most Commented





Nationwide ban on gutka products soon 






Noida land row: Allahabad High Court to start..






Quake toll climbs to 72; landslides, rains..






CLT20: KKR beat Auckland Aces by 2 runs






Additional construction at Commonwealth Games..








Ashamed to buy condom in public, purchase..






Graduates with minimum 45 percent marks..






MPs 'not ready' for social audit of MPLADS:..






Congress, BJP engrossed in tug-of-war over..






Railways parcel management to go online 









Nation: National News

State: North |   South |   East |   West

Business: Economy |  World | Companies and Products |  IT and Market

Entertainment: Entertainment




World: Asia |   Africa |   Europe and America |   Middle East and Others 

Sports: Cricket |   Cricket World Cup |   Other Sports

Specials: Jagran Editorial | Jagran Blogs

Lifestyle: Lifestyle








Home | About us |  Advertise with Us |   Contact us


Site map |  Privacy Policy | Terms & Conditions







Copyright Info |   All Rights Reserved 























 