Move to invite Chinese industries will spell doom for MP economy: Sajjan Singh



Quicklinks:
                        Photo Gallery,
                                    Videos,
                                    Jagran.com






Find us on:
















Home


Nation


Politics


Crime


General News


Photo Gallery




World


Asia


Africa


Europe and America


Middle East and Others


Photo Gallery




States


North


South


East


West




Business


Economy


World


Companies and Products


IT and Market


Gold Price


Sensex




Sports


Cricket


Cricket World Cup


IPL-4 2011


Sportsperson


Other Sports


Photo Gallery


India Vs West Indies


India vs England




Entertainment


Movie Review


Photo Gallery




Lifestyle


Special


Editorial


Blogs




Champions League 2011







Home » 

Indian States News » 

North India News » 
Move to invite Chinese industries will spell doom for MP economy: Sajjan Singh






Search











Move to invite Chinese industries will spell doom for MP economy: Sajjan Singh


Posted on: 21 Sep 2011, 08:20 PM










« Previous


Next »




Loading image. Please wait
Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chauhan








Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chauhan
 



Indore: Raising several questions on Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chauhan’s visit to China, Congress Member of Parliament from Dewas Sajjan Singh Verma said the visit is not in the welfare of the nation.
Verma said, “China is involved in destroying the Indian economy and is posing danger to the country while the Chief Minister wants to bring Chinese industries in the state which will pose a threat to our markets.”
 “The CM should have instead made efforts to provide roads and basic facilities in the state,” he said, questioning Chauhan whether he had taken the permission of the BJP’s national leaders for the trip and informed the Union Home Minister on Chinese investment in the state.
Giving various examples of China’s dominance, Verma said, “China has been infiltrating into Indian borders repeatedly and even blew away many bunkers of the Indian Army a few days back in Ladakh. It is also continuously opposing India’s permanent seat in the UN Security Council which raises doubt on its intentions. In such a situation, how is it justified to invite Chinese investors to the state?”
Putting the CM in the dock, he said, “The trade in the state is already suffering due to lack of electricity and roads and Chinese industries will add to the apathy of the state’s traders.”
Terming the Investor’s meet as a total failure, he said, “Crores of rupees were spent on the meet but it gave no returns. If this visit of the CM turns successful, the state will be posed with a situation similar to Singur.” (JPN/Bureau)
 


« Previous


Next »



                Tags:
                Sajjan criticises MP CM’s China visit, Shivraj Singh Chauhan’s visit to China, Shivraj Singh Chauhan’s Chin visit criticized, MP chief minister’s China visit, MP CM visits China, Chinese industries in Madhya Pradesh, condition of trade in Madhya Pradesh







Related Articles:



Tablet PCs to spell doom for desktops, laptops? - Date Posted: 01/09/11


Arguing during honeymoon could spell marriage doom - Date Posted: 19/08/11


ADB forecasts poor growth for Chinese economy - Date Posted: 06/04/11


MP government not to acquire farm land for industrial purpose - Date Posted: 18/08/11


West Bengal to revive industries, invites capitalists to start closed factories  - Date Posted: 26/08/11


Sajjan Kumar denies charges of inciting mob in 1984 riots - Date Posted: 18/07/11


BSP MP Dhananjay Singh suspended for supporting Amar Singh - Date Posted: 21/09/11


China invited to invest in India at seminar meet - Date Posted: 12/06/11


World Bank lauds Shivraj Singh Chouhan, invites him to Washington DC - Date Posted: 24/06/11


Kalyan Singh turns down BJP invitation to rejoin party - Date Posted: 16/09/11









Post Comment




*Name : 


  


*Email ID : 


 


 (Your Email address will not be displayed) 




Type your comment here...
















Top News
Latest News




Bird flu marks entry in West Bengal


Brick kilns to be shifted for war planes


Sajjan criticises MP CM’s China visit


Smart card to ameliorate traffic woes


Way paved for mining in 200 coal blocks


One-year long celebration for Malaviya


AIIMS invents drug to treat Alzheimer’s


MCD to issue health norms soon






BCB director questions Shakib's axing


Gayle uncertain about his future in WI


Japan Open: Saina, Kashyap in 2nd round


Ruhunu keep CLT20 semis chances alive


Armando faces opposition in extension


400 foreign tourists stranded in Sikkim 


Bird flu marks entry in West Bengal


HI lift 2 years ban on Sandeep, Sardara









Most Read
Most Commented





Nationwide ban on gutka products soon 






Noida land row: Allahabad High Court to start..






Quake toll climbs to 72; landslides, rains..






CLT20: KKR beat Auckland Aces by 2 runs






Additional construction at Commonwealth Games..








Ashamed to buy condom in public, purchase..






Graduates with minimum 45 percent marks..






MPs 'not ready' for social audit of MPLADS:..






Congress, BJP engrossed in tug-of-war over..






Railways parcel management to go online 









Nation: National News

State: North |   South |   East |   West

Business: Economy |  World | Companies and Products |  IT and Market

Entertainment: Entertainment




World: Asia |   Africa |   Europe and America |   Middle East and Others 

Sports: Cricket |   Cricket World Cup |   Other Sports

Specials: Jagran Editorial | Jagran Blogs

Lifestyle: Lifestyle








Home | About us |  Advertise with Us |   Contact us


Site map |  Privacy Policy | Terms & Conditions







Copyright Info |   All Rights Reserved 























 