Sikkim earthquake unusual, say geologists-Politics/Nation-News-The Economic Times on Mobile
21 Sep, 2151hrs ISTFull Site
Sensex
17065.15
  -34.13  
  -0.20%
											  
Nifty
5133.25
  -6.95  
  -0.14%
											  
  Home | Markets | Industry | Portfolio | All Sections | Videos | mPaper
E-mail this
POLITICS/NATION
Sikkim earthquake unusual, say geologists20 Sep, 2011, 1237  hrs IST, IANS
 BANGALORE:
The earthquake that rocked Sikkim Sunday is unusual in terms of its magnitude
and nature of origin, say leading geologists.
 "There is nothing
surprising in this earthquake as the region north of Sikkim, which forms the
outliers of Tibetan tectonics, is known for moderate earthquakes in the past,"
C.P. Rajendran at the Indian Institute of Science here told IANS.
 But
what makes it different is its "unusually greater magnitude".
 These
earthquakes are different in the sense they are along the somewhat north-south
structures trending transverse to the east-west Himalayan axis, Rajendran said.
They are different from the usual Himalayan thrust earthquakes that are caused
by the collision of the Indian plate with the Eurasian plate.
 Vineet
Gahaulat at the National Geophysical Research Institute (NGRI) in Hyderabad
said: "The (Sikkim) earthquake highlights the presence of the role of transverse
features in the Himalayas."
 "This 6.9 magnitude earthquake possibly
occurred on a northwest-southeast trending almost vertical fault through strike
slip motion."
 "This is what we generally do not expect in the
Himalayas," Gahaulat said. "We expect large magnitude earthquakes on the
detachment having thrust motion on gently dipping planes - like the 1999 Chamoli
and 1991 Uttarkashi earthquakes."
 Gahaulat said the role of
transverse features in segmenting the Himalayan arc and accommodating some of
the convergence of the India-Eurasia plates have been talked about
earlier.
 "But this one (Sikkim quake) makes it clearer as this is
possibly the largest magnitude earthquake of this type in the
Himalayas."
 Gahaulat is also surprised at the fewer number of
aftershocks - only two to three aftershocks of magnitude greater than 4.5. "So
where are all the aftershocks gone? Are they yet to occur in the following
days," he asked.
 According to Gahaulat, "we need to be careful" if,
in the coming days, the aftershocks occur southeast of the main shock epicentre
- the way two aftershocks have occurred.
 "The region where the main
shock occurred has very low population density, but further southeast,
population density is higher," he cautioned.
 "The occurrence of this
earthquake does not lower down the threat from the great earthquake which we
expect in the Himalayas," the NGRI scientist warned.
 The one (or
more) which is expected will be a thrust type earthquake on the detachment which
will be much more devastating than this one, he said.
 "We need to
treat each and every earthquake in a special way, you just need to turn it
around and it will tell a somewhat different story."
 Rajendran,
however, does not think this particular event in Sikkim can be treated as a
precursory signal to any major earthquake that may occur in future along the
Himalayan arc.
 "Having said that, the fact remains that some
historically earthquake-deficient parts of the Himalayas has the potential to
generate large earthquakes any time, irrespective of the present earthquake," he
cautioned.
Home | Markets | Industry | Portfolio | All Sections | Videos | mPaperTo create a shortcut to ET Mobile from your phone, pls click hereOther Mobile Sites: TOI MOBILE, Indiatimes Mobile,Job Search, Property SearchPost Print Ad
Copyright  © 2011 Bennett Coleman & Co. All rights reserved.Powered by Indiatimes
