 Sikkim earthquake: Prime Minister Manmohan Singh assures help for victims : Mail Today Stories: India Today






















In Association With


























Home
Mind Rocks
Blogs
Photos
Videos
News
India
Sport
Movies
Lifestyle
Magazine

Cover Story
Nation
States
Economy
Glass House
Sport
Up Front
Profile
Byword
Glossary
Archives


Supplements

Home
Aspire
Spice
Woman
Simply Delhi
Simply Chennai
Simply Gujarati
Simply Kolkata
Simply Punjabi
Simply Mumbai
Simply Bangalore
Simply Hyderabad
Simply Pune


Shopping












India Today

 / Mail Today Stories / 
			Story
Courtesy: Mail Today



Soudhriti Bhabani
	 Darjeeling (West Bengal), September 21, 2011 | UPDATED 13:35 IST


Sikkim earthquake: Prime Minister Manmohan Singh assures help for victims






























The earthquake-affected areas of Darjeeling district are limping back to normalcy. In Kalimpong and Kurseong sub-divisions, people braved inclement weather to stay outdoors after a 6.8 magnitude quake rattled the area on Sunday evening. On Tuesday, they started returning home. But panic still prevails in the area.
As many as 68 people are believed to have died in Sunday's earthquake. In New Delhi, Union home secretary R.K. Singh said the death toll in Sikkim has reached 50.
As the extent of damage caused by the quake unfolded gradually, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh spoke to Sikkim chief minister Pawan Kumar Chamling again on Tuesday to assure him the Centre would do everything needed to deal with the situation.
He also called a meeting of the cabinet committee on political affairs to discuss ways to help the state, PMO sources said.
The number of people killed in the quake in West Bengal rose to 12 with eight deaths reported in Darjeeling district, three in North Dinajpur and one in Jalpaiguri.
Four people, including three women, were killed in Kalimpong sub-division alone. Nearly half the houses in the area have developed cracks.
"The damage has mainly occurred in rural areas. We met CM Mamata Banerjee on Monday and informed her about the situation. The district administration is assessing the extent of damage," Gorkha Janmukti Morcha general secretary Roshan Giri said.
In Sikkim, the army has managed to reach Mangan - the epicentre of the quake - with relief material. The NH-55 from Bagdogra to Darjeeling has been restored while work is on to clear the highway that connects Gangtok with Nathu La, the police said.
About 5,500 personnel from the army and the National Disaster Relief Force (NDRF) were engaged in clearing roads. Even in the best of times the road infrastructure in the state is not good. The earthquake has made it worse, an army officer said. The army itself has taken a hit as it has a big presence in the strategically sensitive region. One of the biggest challenges facing the rescue teams was to restore communication lines.
-With Mail Today in Delhi


CLICK HERE FOR MORE NEWS »





STAY CONNECTED WITH US ON














 IN DEPTH COVERAGE     Anna Hazare special Know more about him and his fight against corruption in photos, videos and reports. More Specials




TOP PICKS






ADVERTISEMENT









Web: InTodayPublications: India Today | India Today - Hindi | Business Today | Cosmopolitan | Men's Health | Wonder Woman | Money Today | Prevention | Reader's Digest | Good Housekeeping | Travel Plus | Golf Digest India | Design Today | Time |Harvard Business Review | Scientific American India  | Gadgets & Gizmos Television: Aaj Tak| Headlines Today Radio: Oye! 104.8FM Education: Vasant  Valley | Learn Today Online Shopping: Bag It Today | India Today Diaries Events: India Today Conclave | India Today Woman's Summit | India Today Youth Summit Music: Music Today Printing: Thomson Press
Welfare: Care Today Classifieds: Directories Today Useful Links : Partners 


ABOUT US
CONTACT US
ADVERTISE WITH US
SUBSCRIPTION
WE CARE
PRIVACY POLICY



                    Copyright © 2011 Living Media India Limited. For reprint rights: Syndications Today.













A   A   A
X





