Sikkim Earthquake Toll Climbs to 66 





 
  News  





Search 


News
Members












 



  Latest news   | 
  
 General  | 
   
  Technology  | 

 Enterprise IT  | 

  
 Tech Products  | 

  Startups  | 

  Finance  | 
  
  Business  | 

  
  Career  | 
  
  US-Indian  | 
   
  Movie reviews   | 

   
  Life 

 Sign in 








 Follow us on twitter 
 Share on Facebook 
 Comment 










 

 
Sign in to your SiliconIndia account 





Email:  
    Password:  


Sign in 
Cancel


 Don't have SiliconIndia account?  
Sign up         Forgot your password?   Reset 






 
You have chosen to add   to your network.

I would like to invite you to my professional network on SiliconIndia. It allows us to invite trusted contacts and stay connected with ease. 




Email  
	    
	Password  
	








 Don't have SiliconIndia account?  Sign up         Forgot your password?   Reset 

  Cancel

 




 









Grave Social Media Mistakes Cos Make 



How to Get Along With Five Difficult People at Work 



Bangalore-Based Engineer Invents Haptic Shoe to Guide the Blind 



Know Your CEOs On Job Hopping 



Will An Independent Palestine be a Reality? 



Ten Cool Apps for Co-Working Professionals 



10 tweets That Got People Fired 



Lord Ganesha's 'Investigation' by Hitler Stirs Protests 



Pakistan's GDP Includes Terror Funding 

 




Sikkim Earthquake Toll Climbs to 66
By

PTI,

Monday, 19 September 2011, 08:17 Hrs 







Gangtok: Landslides and inclement weather today hampered rescue operations in quake-hit Sikkim as the death toll in the 6.8 magnitude tremblor mounted to 66, including 39 in the Himalayan state.

The earthquake, which struck last evening, left a trail of devastation damaging roads, buildings and other structures, uprooting mobile phone towers and snapping communication and power lines. After shocks made people panic in several areas forcing them to spend the night outdoors.
			
 





Is the Blackberry Era Heading Towards Darkness?




  
Yes 

   
No  



    View result 




West and South districts in Sikkim remained inaccessible to the Army due to landslides and inclement weather and rescuers were facing an uphill task to reach these areas, Major General S L Narasimhan, GOC 17 Mountain Division told reporters here.

Sikkim accounted for 39 deaths alone, with most casualties taking place in the North District and in towns and villages like Rangpo, Dikchu, Singtam and Chungthang located along the course of Teesta river, officials in the district control room said.

Eight persons travelling in a bus of Teesta Urja Limited in North District are presumed dead as their vehicle got stuck under debris caused by a landslide, Narasimhan said. This, however, has not been incorporated in the official figure of those killed.

The overnight toll climbed to 66 which included six deaths in West Bengal and seven each in Bihar, Nepal and Tibet, official reports said. Over a hundred people have been injured.

Narasimhan said army has launched 'Operation Madad' in Gangtok and other areas by deploying over 2,500 troops."We are also sending teams to Darjeeling and Kalimpong (in West Bengal)," he said.

A group of 14 tourists were rescued by the army from north Sikkim last night, Narasimhan said.

In Delhi, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh announced Rs two lakh as ex-gratia to next of kin of those killed in the earthquake and Rs one lakh each for those seriously injured.
	





 Don't Miss







 

Spend Rs.36 a Day and You are No More Poor



 

The Twitter War on Modi



 

Things You Do Not Know About Apple's Gay CEO



 

Corruption Takes Politicians On Quota Path



 

Chronicles of TCS by Ramadorai









 

Celebs, Who Kept Away From Parliament



 

Will People's Power Explode Govt's Nuclear...



 

Cool Android Devices That Aren't Phones



 

Tech Product: Boon or Curse



 

Ten Cool Apps for Co-Working Professionals









 

Pakistan's GDP Includes Terror Funding



 

Most Wanted Gadget Fixes



 

Most Expensive Cell Phones



 

10 tweets That Got People Fired



 

The Yatra of a Neta, a Baba and an Activist












    

  Write your comment now 
    |    
  Submit your news/press release 	 






Your Name: 
				   
				Email: 
				






Type the characters you see in the picture 








  
			    Cancel






 Let our editorial department know about any news about your company, your
organization, or yourself, or any press release that you have. If we find  it suitable for our audience, we will contact you and make a news. Please
also share any links for the news.





 
Chr left 

Your name:       Email 






Type the characters you see in the picture 





    Cancel
  









		 Recent posts from General news
	 	  


		  		The Twitter War on Modi
       



		  		Spend Rs.36 a Day and You are No More Poor
       



		  		Will People's Power Explode Govt's Nuclear Plans?
       



		  		India Lacks Quake Preparedness: Experts
       



		  		Delhi Metro Attracts Management Graduates from Yale, Stanford & Wharton
       









  Most read  
 


  Most commented  
 


 Special  
 

 



Corruption Takes Politicians On Quota Path


The Twitter War on Modi


Things You Do Not Know About Apple's Gay CEO


Will People's Power Explode Govt's Nuclear Plans?


Are You A First Time Manager? Do's and Don'ts for You


New Trends Of Education In India


Celebs,  Who Kept Away From Parliament




 Subscribe for newsletter  | RSS  






 Most read  

 




 Most commented  

 




 special  

 



 



Why U.S. has to Worry about Hindu Terrorism?


Can Modi Change the Way World Perceives Him?


77 Percent of Union Ministers are Crorepatis


Lord Ganesha's 'Investigation' by Hitler Stirs Protests


Why India Hesitated to Develop its Chinese Borders?


Are Marriages a Heavenly or Costly Affair?


It May be Rahul vs Modi Affair in 2014 Elections: CRS




 Subscribe for newsletter  | RSS  






 Most read  

 




 Most commented  

 




 special  

 



 



The Yatra of a Neta, a Baba and an Activist


Pakistan's GDP Includes Terror Funding


India's Businessmen-Turned-Politicians


Can Modi Change the Way World Perceives Him?


Will An Independent Palestine be a Reality?


Top 5 Worst Dressed CEOs




 Subscribe for newsletter  | RSS  









Plan on visiting the Lotus Temple? Get Great Deals on Delhi Hotels !




 

 




 SPOTLIGHT








 The Yatra of a Neta, a Baba and an Activist 


	  	A political leader, a spiritual guru and a social activist - all set to take up countrywide yatras..
	  




 
				 Lord Ganesha's 'Investigation' by Hitl.. 
				 


 
				 Is the Blackberry Era Heading Towards .. 
				 


 
				 Pakistan's GDP Includes Terror Funding 
				 


 
				 Can Modi Change the Way World Perceive.. 
				 


 
				 Will An Independent Palestine be a Rea.. 
				 











 
			Beautiful Women Who Made India Proud  
		  

	  	        Indian Beauty Pageant winners have created a benchmark in the field of glamor and beauty ...	  




 
				 77 Percent of Union Ministers are Cror.. 
				 
				 


 
				 10 Most Expensive Purchase of the Year.. 
				 
				 


 
				 Bollywood Sets the Trend for New career  
				 
				 


 
				 7 Historical Mysteries 
				 
				 


 
				 Most Controversial Cricket Autobiograp.. 
				 
				 











 
			6 Most Expensive Tech Slip-Ups 
		


	  	The world of technology is all about innovation, expansion, experiment, creativity. But does it al..
	  






				India, the Fastest Growing Nation on Facebook 
				
 



				Windows 8 Features Unveiled  
				
 



				What was Your Workplace Before Internet? 
				
 



				Top 5 Laptops for Business People 
				
 



				India, the Least Honest on the Web 
				
 










 	
			The Business of Durga Puja  
		  


	  	
  The Navaratri festival is round the corner making people more excited and geared up for the ni..
	  




 
				World's Third Largest Economy: India to Bea.. 


 
				Indian Railways- World's 8th Biggest Employ.. 


 
				Are Marriages a Heavenly or Costly Affair? 


 
				How Smartphones Make You Spend a Bomb 


 
				Grave Social Media Mistakes Cos Make 











 Tech Products That Failed For Being Futuristic  


	  	Not all great ideas translate into success. Some are launched much ahead of their time. It happens..
	  




 
				The Worst Tech Mergers and Acquisitions of .. 


 
				How can India boost an Entrepreneurial Ecos.. 


 
				What Bangalore should learn from the Rise &.. 


 
				Most Trusted Brands in India 


 
				Most Famous Business Feuds 











 
			Engineer Invents Haptic Shoe to Guide the Blind 
		


	  	We are blessed with eyes, through which we can view the beautiful world, but can we feel the pain ..
	  




 
					Criticize Your Boss On FB: Get Fired  
				


 
					Know Your CEOs On Job Hopping 
				


 
					Tips to Increase Your Leadership Skills 
				


 
					How to Battle Lethargy in Office 
				


 
					What Type Of Personality Are You? 
				


















































 
			The Yatra of a Neta, a Baba and an Activist 
		


	  	A political leader, a spiritual guru and a social activist - all set to take up countrywide yatras..
	  




 
				Lord Ganesha's 'Investigation' by Hitl.. 
				


 
				Is the Blackberry Era Heading Towards .. 
				


 
				Pakistan's GDP Includes Terror Funding 
				


 
				Can Modi Change the Way World Perceive.. 
				


 
				Will An Independent Palestine be a Rea.. 
				

















  


  


  














































 













 
 






















				Inside SiliconIndia
			



Communities 

• Private Sector Industries

																			A community for private sector industries, it is the Professional platform to shar...
									 more>> 

• RURAL MARKETING

																			In recent years, rural markets have acquired significance, as the overall growth o...
									 more>> 


 Questions

• Are we not loosing handwri... 
• Do we really need 'Lokpal ... 
• Is 45%elligible to take ad... 
• I am completed BA, i want ... 
• how can u get relax when u... 
• What is the scope of doing... 
• Is it better to do MCA fro... 



 Blogs

• Business and Investment Op... 
• How to Convert DVD to MKV ... 
• HSBC aims to grow unsecure... 
• How to add flash to your w... 
• How to reduce or split siz... 
• Yoga Tips for Cancer 
• How to Edit PDF files freely 



 Jokes

• Training For Parachute Jum... 
•  There Are Hundreds Of Them. 
• This CD Player Plays CDs!!! 
• It's Working Perfectly Here 
• New Job At The Zoo. 
• How Lucky I Am!! 
• How Does It Know? 










News:              Technology   |    Enterprise IT    |    Tech Products    |    Startups    |    Finance    |    Business    |    Career    |   Magazine  |    Dailydose   |   News archive   |   
 
 
  RSS



 Network:        Network    |    Profile    |   Messages     |    Scrapbook    |   Find    |    Blogs    |    Communities    |    Events    |    Q&A   |    CXO Insights  

 Career:          Jobs   |    Companies       |    Mentorship    |   Videos   |    Career blogs   |    Training institutions  |    Freshers   
 Online courses:     Web developer     |  
	Java developer    |  
	CCNA training     |  

	 SEO     |  
			 SAS     |  
			 SQL server 2005     |  
			 J2EE 

 Education:     MBA     |  MCA    |    Engineering    |   Overseas Education     |    Internship  
 Life:                         Jokes     |     Bookstore   |    Relocate  |  Marketplace 
 Cities:                  Startup     |  Real estate     |    Finance    
 Company:     About us    |    Contact   |    Help   |    Community rules    |   Advertise with us    |   Sitemap
 Member directory:    A  B  C  D  E  F  G  H  I  J  K  L  M  N  O  P  Q  R  S  T  U  V  W  X  Y  Z     
 and help us continue to improve SiliconIndia
© 2010 SiliconIndia all rights reserved 

 











































