Sikkim earthquake unusual and defies easy characterization  | The Extinction Protocol: 2012 and beyond
The Extinction Protocol: 2012 and beyond
2012 and Earthchanges News events
Skip to content
HomeLearn more: The Extinction Protocol book
← Swiss Alps hit with record September snowfall totals
The rise of the terminator killer drones →
Sikkim earthquake unusual and defies easy characterization
Posted on September 20, 2011 by The Extinction Protocol 
September 20, 2011 – SIKKIM - India’s earthquake Sept. 18 was likely the result of two seismic events striking at nearly the same time, according to the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS). The magnitude 6.9 quake killed at least 55 people in northeastern India, Nepal and Tibet, reported the Associated Press. The quake rumbled the mountainous region of the Indian town of Mangan, in the northeast Indian province of Sikkim, and near the Nepalese border.The epicenter was 42 miles northwest of Gangtok, India. Tremors from India’s big earthquake were felt as far away as Bangladesh and New Delhi. The quake came at the end of the monsoon season, and rain-soaked hills spawned landslides that caused much of the devastation, according to the American Geophysical Union’s Landslide Blog. Heavy rainfall and more aftershocks in the coming days could complicate recovery efforts. A flurry of big earthquakes have hit in recent weeks around the seismically and volcanically active Pacific Ring of Fire, but they were not triggered by each other. The Sikkim earthquake, as it’s called, was also unrelated to these other temblors, but was seismically complex in its own right. The quake was likely a result of two seismic events occurring close together in time at depths of approximately 12.4 miles beneath the Earth’s surface, the USGS told OurAmazingPlanet. The quake struck near the boundary between the India and Eurasia tectonic plates, which are huge slabs of the Earth’s crust that mash and grind together and trigger earthquakes. Here, the India plate converges with Eurasia at a rate of approximately 46 millimeters per year toward the north-northeast. Over millions of years, this convergence created the uplift of the Himalayas, the world’s highest mountain range. The initial analysis of the earthquake suggests the quake wasn’t caused by one plate thrusting beneath another, but by so-called strike-slip faulting, a mechanism where fault systems slide side-to-side when two tectonic plates butt heads. Geologists suspect the fault is likely an intraplate fault within the upper Eurasian plate or the underlying India plate, rather than occurring at the interface between the two plates, according to the USGS. -MSNBC
Share this:ShareStumbleUponRedditDiggLinkedInFacebookEmailLike this:Like2 bloggers like this post. 
						This entry was posted in Earth Changes, Earth Watch, High-risk potential hazard zone, Seismic tremors. Bookmark the permalink.											
← Swiss Alps hit with record September snowfall totals
The rise of the terminator killer drones →
4 Responses to Sikkim earthquake unusual and defies easy characterization
 b Ocasio says: 
			September 20, 2011 at 10:41 pm 
Thank you Alvin, this is rather difficult to understand or visualize, but I am going to download this page soI can study it better. May God raise our consciousness to his Eternal Love, to the need to love one another, and to put everything in His hands, whatever happens or wherever it happens.
Blanca Ocasio
Reply 
 The Extinction Protocol says: 
			September 21, 2011 at 8:03 am 
You’re welcome, friend…
peace and blessings,
Alvin
Reply 
 Irene Carmichael says: 
			September 21, 2011 at 12:32 am 
Is it just me, or does it seem like all the fault lines and tectonic plates are becoming active at the same time?
Maranatha
Reply 
 Third Adam says: 
			September 21, 2011 at 6:28 am 
Earthquakes in divers places.
Reply 
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Guest
Log In
Log In
Log In
Email (required) (Not published)
Name (required)
Website
Please log in to WordPress.com to post a comment to your blog.
 You are commenting using your Twitter account. (Log Out)
 You are commenting using your Facebook account. (Log Out)
Connecting to %s
 Notify me of follow-up comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.
 
Search for:
  Recent Posts 
Deadly mudslides hit Guatemala day after earthquakes
Magnetic pole shift alters markers at Oregon airport
Powerful Typhoon Roke hits Japan- heavy flooding, 4 dead
Polio strain spreads to China from Pakistan
IMF warns western economies teetering on the brink of another recession
Archives 
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
Categories 
11:11 signature encoded
2012
Acquatic Ecosystem crash
Catastrophic Insurance losses mount
Celebrities and the Apocalypse
Civilizations unraveling
Climate unraveling
Cloudburst storms with flashflooding
Comets
Commentary
Dark Ages
Disappearing Lakes
Dream Portal TEP
Dust Storm
Earth Changes
Earth Watch
Earthquake Omens?
Economic upheaval, social unrest, terrorism
Environmental Threat
Extinction Protocol Exclusive Editorial
Extreme Weather Event
Famine Threat
Fireballs, Meteor or Asteroid
Food chain unraveling
Forecast book quotation
Future coding
High-risk potential hazard zone
Land fissures, cracks, sinkholes
Landslide & geological deformation
Lithosphere collapse & fisssure
Mass animal deaths
Monthly lead post
New World Order -Dystopia- War
Pack Animal Aggression
Pest Explosions
Pestilence Watch
Planetary Tremor Event
Potential Earthchange hotspot
Prophecies referenced
Seismic tremors
Signs of Magnetic Field weakening
Solar Event
Space Watch
Strange high tides & freak waves
Unprecedented Flooding
Unsolved Mystery
Ususual animal behavior for disaster
Volcanic Eruption
Volcano Watch
Wildfires
Email Subscription
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 1,418 other followers
EP: Live Twitter Feed
Guatemala hit by deadly mudslides after string of earthquakes: http://t.co/s8mRPQcq -The Extinction Protocol...24 minutes ago
Magnetic north slide causes changes at Oregon airport: http://t.co/dhRZOynp -The Extinction Protocol...25 minutes ago
Baja, California quake swarm notice. 4 tremors have shaken the region in 5 hours. -The Extinction Protocol...4 hours ago
 
The Extinction Protocol: 2012 and beyondThe world will change. Will you be ready?
 
					The Extinction Protocol: 2012 and beyond				
				Theme: Twenty Ten Blog at WordPress.com. 
			
Follow
Follow this Blog
Get every new post on this blog delivered to your Inbox.
Join 1,418 other followers
Powered by WordPress.com 
Send to Email Address
Your Name
Your Email Address
Cancel
				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			
				Email check failed, please try again			
				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
