Sikkim, India - Earthquake Magnitude 6.9 -- Earth Changes -- Sott.net



          Welcome to Sott.net
        


        Wed, 21 Sep 2011
      





VISITOURBOOKSTORE







































Home
About
Podcast
Forum
RSS
Archive
Register
Login











Find us on:




















Earth Changes















Sikkim, India - Earthquake Magnitude 6.9



US Geological SurveySun, 18 Sep 2011 13:33 CDT





© USGSEarthquake LocationDate-Time:
Sunday, September 18, 2011 at 12:40:48 UTC

Sunday, September 18, 2011 at 06:10:48 PM at epicenter

Time of Earthquake in other Time Zones

Location:
27.723°N, 88.064°E

Depth:
19.7 km (12.2 miles)

Region:
SIKKIM, INDIA

Distances:
68 km (42 miles) NW of Gangtok, Sikkim, India

119 km (73 miles) NNW of Shiliguri, West Bengal, India

272 km (169 miles) E of KATHMANDU, Nepal

572 km (355 miles) N of Kolkata (Calcutta), West Bengal, India
						
Location Uncertainty:
horizontal +/- 13.5 km (8.4 miles); depth +/- 3.5 km (2.2 miles)

Parameters:
NST=344, Nph=348, Dmin=371.8 km, Rmss=1.21 sec, Gp= 22°,
M-type="moment" magnitude from initial P wave (tsuboi method) (Mi/Mwp), Version=C

Source:
Magnitude: USGS NEIC (WDCS-D)
Location: USGS NEIC (WDCS-D)

Event ID:
usc0005wg6
		











 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Tweet
 Share
 



(Register to add your comments!)



Reader Comments





( No Comments )










Sections


Front Page
Earth Changes
Fire in the Sky
Health & Wellness
Science of the Spirit
Puppet Masters
Society's Child
Secret History
Science & Technology
High Strangeness
Don't Panic! Lighten Up!





RecentComments



I liked the use of that word, as it an efficient use of the term to prep the masses for what's coming...

gdpetti








Reminds me of the whole Vietnam air strategy and look how successful that was in the end....

gdpetti








Its a sad commentary regarding our world when we are not allowed to have any fundamental trust in ano...

Nap








...Necromancer. He and Ray Kurzweil should become fast friends. To each their own, but with regards t...

rkestler








But in the US a list of additives and chemicals a mile long is added to the tobacco not to mention th...

Amerikagulag















Podcasts


Listen to ExclusiveSott Podcasts

        01:14:25
      
 New! Sott Perspectives on Cults


All Podcasts

»









View Latest »





Éiriú EolasTake BackYour Life


Stress ControlHealing, andRejuvenation Program

Proven benefits of the Éiriú Eolas Program include:
- instantly control stress in high energy situations
- detox your body resulting in pain relief
- relax and gently work through past emotional and psychological trauma
- regenerate and rejuvenate your body/mind
Éiriú Eolas will enable you to rapidly and gently access and release layers of mental, emotional and physical toxicity that stand between you and a healthy, younger feeling and younger looking body!


Presented byLaura Knight-Jadczyk
»






Knowledgeand Being



In this ground breaking multi-part video series, Laura Knight-Jadczyk discusses the history of the modern spiritual movement and the pitfalls and traps awaiting any would-be "channeler". She also provides a glimpse into the events that led to the beginnings of the "Cassiopaean Experiment".


Presented byLaura Knight-Jadczyk

»







SpecialReports



Meteorites, Asteroids, and Comets: Damages, Disasters, Injuries, Deaths, and Very Close Calls - Laura Knight-Jadczyk
Signs Meteor Supplement
Signs Supplement: The Flu Threat
Signs Supplement: Super Volcanoes






Tunguska, Psychopathy and the Sixth Extinction
Impact Hazards on a Populated Earth?
Meteorites, Asteroids, and Comets: Damages, Disasters, Injuries, Deaths, and Very Close Calls
Letters From the Edge
Tunguska, the Horns of the Moon and Evolution
Comet Biela and Mrs. O'Leary's Cow
Thirty Years of Cults and Comets
Wars, Pestilence and Witches
Cosmic Turkey Shoot
The Hazard to Civilization from Fireballs and Comets
New Light on the Black Death: The Cosmic Connection
Majesterium and the Tipping Point
Something Wicked This Way Comes
The Younger Dryas Impact Event and the Cycles of Cosmic Catastrophes - Climate Scientists Awakening
Forget About Global Warming: We're One Step From Extinction!
Climate Change Swindlers and the Political Agenda
Wake the World Up Campaign
Fire and Ice - The Day After Tomorrow






Sott.netE-mailEdition




Subscribe
»





Sott FocusListing



Sott exclusive articles and in-depth investigations
By Author »





Spreadthe Word



Share these DESKTOP PICTURES, and help us vanquish these venal and virulent vermin vanguarding vice and vouchsafing the violently vicious and voracious violation of volition!




















Ark'sQuantumQuirks




Sometimes when you are mad you are really mad
















LatestNews


 New Gulf Oil Spill Raises New Questions
 Canada: Massive Whales Make Rare Appearance in B.C. Waters
 US: Thousands of white bass turn up dead in Arkansas River
 US: "Extremely Rare" Third Straight Spare-the-Air Alert Tomorrow
 "It sounds supernatural" - baseball game in US haunted by strange sound
 Australia: Mystery Weed Found on Beaches





Pictureof the Day







Quoteof theDay
Truth fears no trial.

        - Proverb
      





The DotConnectorMagazine





Featured Articles

Corruption of Science in America
Percy Schmeiser vs. Monsanto
The Galileo Syndrome – Part I: The Society of Psychical Research
What Do We Really Know About the Secret Space Programs?


SUBSCRIBE to The Dot Connector Magazine!





Connectingthe Dots



A monthly exposé revealing the hidden hands behind the global impact events that shape our world and our future.
»






LAURA KNIGHT-JADCZYK AND JOE QUINN
Since the 9/11 attacks, no book has provided a
    satisfactory answer as to WHY the attacks occurred and who was ultimately responsible for
    carrying them out - until now.
BUY IT NOW!






ANDREW M. LOBACZEWSKI
Scientists living under an oppressive regime 
    decide to clinically study the founders and supporters of evil regimes to determine what common factor is at play in the rise and propagation of man's inhumanity to man.
GET A COPY!





Sott.netT-shirts



»





SupportSOTT.net



Donate once,or every month!


Click here to learnhow you can help!
»






JFK: The Debris of History
The Gladiator: John Fitzgerald Kennedy
The Bushes and The Lost King
Sim City and John F. Kennedy
John F. Kennedy and All Those "isms"
John F. Kennedy, J. Edgar Hoover, Organized Crime and the Global Village
John F. Kennedy and the Psychopathology of Politics
John F. Kennedy and the Pigs of War
John F. Kennedy and the Titans
John F. Kennedy, Oil, and the War on Terror
John F. Kennedy, The Secret Service and Rich, Fascist Texans
 John F. Kennedy and the Monolithic and Ruthless Conspiracy





Songs ofThe Times


NEW! Still You Believe
You Lied
Relic
All The World's a Stage
Detergent






Blogs




 
 
 






Gulf StreamWatch



»





OtherLanguages



Artykuly po Polsku










      Email us at






      SupportSOTT.NET
    

      E-mails sent to Sott.net become the property of Quantum Future Group, Inc and may be published without notice.
    




      Donate once - or every month!Click here to learn how you can help


Reader comments do not necessarily reflect the views of the volunteers, editors, and directors of SOTT.net or the Quantum Future Group.
Remember, we need your help to collect information on what is going on in your part of the world! Send your article suggestions to: 
Some icons appearing on this site were taken from: KDE-look.org, Afterglow, Mayosoft, Everaldo, IconDrawer, VisualPharm, IconFactory, Klukeart, Icons-land, IconShock.com 

Original content © 2002-2011 by SOTT.net/Signs of the Times. See: Fair Use Policy




