Big earthquake in Sikkim, tremors across India; 54 dead, over 100 injured









NDTV
Profit
Khabar
Movies
Cricket
Good Times
Social

























Updated: September 21, 2011 22:09 IST

















Home
Live TV
Video
India
Cities
World
Sports
Tech
Photos
Trends
Recipes
Weather
Games
Apps
Schedule






Music
EnvironmentPolls
Forums
News Alerts




You are here:
Home » 
                                    India»
                        


Services :
Shopping |
            B2B |
            Property |
            e-Learning |
            Classifieds |
            Travel |
            Loans |
            Gifts








 





Big earthquake in Sikkim, tremors across India; 54 dead, over 100 injured

NDTV Correspondent,
                Updated: September 19, 2011 17:33 IST            






Tweet





















Comments



 














Click to Expand & Play













New Delhi:                     At least 54 people have been killed, 42 in India, five in Nepal and seven in Tibet, and over 100 are injured after an earthquake measuring 6.8 on the Richter Scale shook Sikkim on Sunday evening. Strong tremors were also felt in parts of North and East India and parts of Bangladesh and Nepal, causing widespread panic. The epicentre of the quake is said to be just 64 kilometre North-West of Gangtok. (First Pictures)35 people, including two Armymen, were killed in Sikkim and many others received injuries there. In Bihar, a seven-year-old girl was among two dead. Latehar was one of the worst hit in India; two people died there and wide cracks were visible on houses. Roads also cracked in several places and residents ran out on the streets. Five more died in West Bengal. Of the five people killed in Nepal, three casualties were reported from Kathmandu, where the British embassy collapsed and smashed a car. (Read: Five killed as earthquake hits Nepal)Tremors were felt in Lucknow, Patna, Kolkata, New Delhi and the National Capital Region, which sent thousands of people running out of their homes. (Forum: Did you feel the tremors?)Three aftershocks, of magnitude 5.7, 5.1 and 4.6 were also felt in Sikkim, says the India Meteorological Department. (Buzz on Twitter)Many buildings in Sikkim developed cracks, including the Sikkim Manipal University building. National Highway 31A was also badly hit, but the Army and the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) have restored the road communication. However, it is open for one way traffic only.The highway connects Sukna in Darjeeling (West Bengal) to Gangtok in Sikkim.A total number of 4000 people are involved in the rescue operations including the personnel of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP). They have launched search and rescue operations in the Pegong area of north Sikkim which has been "badly affected." The ITBP rescued 15 foreign tourists and 150 villagers in their operations. They were moved to battalion headquarters. Rescue operations are, however, being hampered by heavy rainfall and landslides. (Read: ITBP rescue 15 tourists, 150 villagers)Addressing a press conference today, Home Secretary RK Singh said food is being air dropped in Siliguri and Purnea. He also said a team of doctors has been air lifted to Sikkim. The Siliguri-Gangtok highway has also been partially opened after landslides, he added. The Home Secretary also said around 2000 people are in an Army camp and around 400 in an ITBP camp.Apart from five civilians, two Army personnel were killed in Sikkim. There was also extensive damage to Army structures in North Sikkim. The Army bus, which was missing after the earthquake, was found today. All the Armymen in the bus are safe.Four teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) were 
rushed to Sikkim and five more teams were being sent from Kolkata, 
Cabinet Secretary Ajit Kumar Seth told reporters after a meeting of top 
officials in Delhi convened on the direction of Prime Minister Manmohan 
Singh. The PM has also spoken to Sikkim's Chief Minister 
Pawan Chamling and offered help. (Read: PM orders meeting of disaster authority) | (Read: What is National Disaster Response Force?)The NDRF personnel, including 20 doctors, were in Siliguri to help and rescue those trapped. Main Siliguri-Gangtok highway is blocked at 25 places; the Army is trying to open the highway.
10 engineer columns are moving from Siliguri to clear the four blockages in the Siliguri-Gangtok route. Large amount of civilians have been accommodated in Kalimpong in West Bengal and other places in Sikkim.There is no electricity in Gangtok and Darjeeling. Telephone lines have also snapped in some parts of Sikkim; phone lines are congested in West Bengal. (Read: Many hurt in Bengal, power supply disrupted)Five Indian Air Force planes have also been pressed into action for relief operations. Small Army columns in Sikkim have also been mobilised post the earthquake. The quake comes just days after an earthquake of 4.2 magnitude hit Haryana's Sonepat district, sending tremors in New Delhi. (Read: Sikkim quake is India's fourth this September)(With agency inputs) 
For NDTV Updates, follow us on Twitter or join us on Facebook




Story first published: September 18, 2011 18:26 IST


Tags:
Earthquake,  Earthquake in Sikkim,  Sikkim earthquake,  strong tremors in Delhi,  Tremors 







Also See







He Said What?! Nepal's acting PM wants quakes to hit US
12 dead, 40 missing at Sikkim plant hit by quake
Quake aftermath: Many villages in Sikkim still cut off, thousands waiting for help
Rahul Gandhi visits quake-hit Sikkim
Earthquake toll over 80; India 68; as rescue teams reach quake epicentre 
Earthquake toll rises to 50; Fresh landslide near Sikkim










Dramatic rescue in quake-hit Sikkim





Rahul reaches Gangtok, meets quake victims





Many villages in quake-hit Sikkim still cut o ...





North East a step child?





Sikkim earthquake: Reliving the horror





Sikkim quake: Schools jolted, classrooms beco ...





Toll rises to 80; Army teams reach quake epic ...





Sikkim earthquake: Rain, landslides hamper re ...





Hilly terrain, rain hampered rescue operation ...





How the earthquake shook India





 





Comments

















                                            Comments
                                        















 




Advertisement












Advertisement












Featured Services







Buy 'Third Best'



Katy Perry-Download Music



Go Goa



Looking for restaurants?



Home loans today



Buy/Rent/Sell Property



Buy Samsung Galaxy S2



Featured Car: Jaguar XK



Best Deals on Omega










Property
Property


Travel
Travel


Local Search
Local Search


Auto
Auto
















Find


 In

























                    Video
                    
Live TV








Govt's report card for 2009-10: Meet the top ministers                                




                                    2:22
                                    




Vidya Balan: Good girl gone bad                                




                                    5 Videos
                                    




March to Delhi: Roadblocks for Modi?                                




                                    49:07
                                    




Return of the casting couch                                




                                    11:35
                                    






More »










Photos





Rockstar Ranbir performs at Nizamuddin Dargah
Audio release of Dhanush's Mayakkam Enna
Akshay Kumar prays at Golden Temple




More »







NDTV Social


Become friends with your favourite NDTV people and shows.
            Start now »
        








Neeta Sharma
 CAG wanted 2 audit padma awards.Chids said no.Reason-since no expenditure involved.Is it the only reason.Shld awards be audited? 1 hour ago
ReadReply







Sikta Deo
 if u dont take care of ur parents&if u live in bihar then u hve to go to jail-is it time this law shud be made relevant for d country 6 hours ago
ReadReply




















world »


            He Said What?! Nepal's acting PM wants quakes to hit US        


 







 NDTVUPDATES WITH














Please upgrade your flash player to view this content.
Download the free Flash Player now!  






Advertise |
            About Us |
            Feedback |
            Disclaimer |
            Investor |
            Complaint Redressal |
            Careers |
            Contact Us







            © Copyright NDTV Convergence Limited 2011. All rights reserved.
        





Close X


Chidambaram was involved in policy decision: Salman Khurshid to NDTV

 


  
