Sikkim: The earthquake will have an economic cost, too | Firstpost



Would you like to make Firstpost your default homepage?   Yes   |   No








Wednesday, September 21st  10:09 PM IST

Facebook
Twitter
RSS


WEB18














#Rajiv Gandhi#Sikkim#P Chidambaram#Roger Federer


Firstpost


Business | Economy
Slowdown affects Bharti, Maruti, SBI tax pay


Business | Fwire
GST bigger game changer than FDI: Biyani





Front page
Politics
World
Business
Economy
Investing
Life
Ideas
Bollywood
Sports

Tech
Blogs











Sikkim: The earthquake will have an economic cost, too

		  

		FP   Editors 
Sep 21, 2011

Follow @firstpostin

 #Fukushima  #Katrina  #Sikkim Quake  #Tsunami  #WhyNow





Email
Share




Comments


Unlike disasters of the economic kind, there is little that can be done to prevent earthquake damage, except maybe pray. AFP and PTI





Also see
Video: Sikkim quake indicative that India is 'moving' West: Scientists Dam safety in Sikkim - we were lucky this timeRahul to visit quake-hit areas of Sikkim tomorrow
 

 The recent earthquake in Sikkim brings to light, once again, the potential loss to countries. Not only are human lives lost, but the economic losses can be tremendous as well. The death toll from the Sikkim earthquake is reportedly at 80 at present, and counting. The loss to property and economy has not even begun to be estimated.
Losses from natural disasters
The magnitude of the Sikkim earthquake has restricted the overall damage, but natural disasters like earthquakes, tsunamis, hurricanes, floods can wipe out years of progress in a flash.
The Japanese earthquake and tsunami that occurred earlier in 2011 is expected to result in a loss of as much as $235 billion, or about 4.1 percent of the Japanese GDP. Japan’s economy might well contract this year as it copes with the losses of the natural disaster.
While the latest Japanese earthquake is reportedly the most expensive ever, other natural disasters in the recent past have caused substantial damage to life and property too.  For instance, the 1995 Kobe earthquake is estimated to have cost as much as $235 billion, or 1.9 percent of Japanese GDP.
A man stands in front of his house, which was damaged by the earthquake, at Mangan village Gangtok . Reuters
In the US, the hurricane prone zone, losses on account of Hurricane Katrina in 2005 cost the US 1 percent of its GDP, while Hurricane Ike in the US and the Caribbean (2008) cost about 0.3 percent of GDP.
The Yangtze river floods of China in 1998 cost the country as much as 3 percent of its GDP, and the Great Floods in the US in 1993 cost 0.3 percent of its GDP.
India’s previous earthquake experiences
Of course, India is no stranger to natural disasters. The Bhuj earthquake, one of the major natural disasters in India in recent times, in 2001, is estimated to have had a death toll of 20,000 people and a loss of assets of as much as $2.1 billion on account of asset losses or direct damage alone, and another $2.3 billion in reconstruction costs to restore properties to their previous standards.
The tsunami that hit the Indian Ocean in 2004 was another major calamity across various parts of Asia, with a damage estimate at $14 billion.
Slideshow of damages from Sikkim earthquake


















/ 












 /  view all
view more galleries





Unfortunately, unlike disasters of the economic kind, there is little that can be done to prevent earthquake damage, except maybe pray.
Of course, it is possible to start thinking ecology when we plan development projects, but that involves costs of its own.



Email
Share




Comments (3)








See more
#WhyNow

US bristles as India, Brics take own line on PalestineAnother half-apology: After Modi, DSK, and it doesn't work Is Ganguly going to be just a figurehead?Can gold prices revive Karnataka's Kolar fields?  


Also see







Video: Sikkim quake indicative that India is 'moving' West: Scientists 
Sep 20, 2011   
As the toll from the Sikkim quake rises, scientists say that it is also significant since it shows that the Indian landmass could be moving to the west as well as to the north. 
 #Gangtok  #India  #Nepal  #NewsTracker  #North East India  #Prime Minister  #Sikkim








Dam safety in Sikkim - we were lucky this time
Sep 20, 2011   
 A quake-hit dam can be a catastrophe of untold proportions. There have been seven draft bills so far but no Dams Safety Act in India. Are we serious?
 #Dam  #Dam removal  #Dam Safety Bill  #Engineering  #Environment  #Hydroelectricity  #Sikkim  #ThatsJustWrong








Rahul to visit quake-hit areas of Sikkim tomorrow
Sep 20, 2011   
Gandhi was scheduled to visit Meghalaya on 21 September for a public meeting of Youth Congress membership. But as the tragedy occurred on Sunday evening leading to casualties in Sikkim, the plan was modified.
 #earthquake  #NewsTracker  #Rahul Gandhi  #Sikkim








Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.











#NewsTracker
Slowdown affects Bharti, Maruti, SBI tax pay 
3 mins ago    

 Lower advance tax signals the impact of economic slowdown in the firms across different sectors.
 #Bharti Airtel  #NewsTracker  #SAIL  #SBI


#WhyNow
RBI needs to intervene in forex market, says StanChart 
Sep 21, 2011    

 The increasing chatter about intervention comes as the partially covertible rupee touched a two-year low of 48.24 to a dollar on Tuesday and remains the worst performer amongst the 10 major Asian currencies.
 #Foreign exchange market  #Reserve Bank of India  #Rupee  #Standard Chartered


#Numbers
Top-100 cos’ advance tax collections rise 10 % to Rs 31,707 cr 
Sep 21, 2011    

 Total advance tax figures for the April-September period now stand at Rs 93,000 crore, an increase of 9.4 percent from the year-ago period.
 #Finance  #Income tax  #Numbers  #Wealth tax


#ConnectTheDots
Why the rupee is down – and only capital flows can rescue it 
Sep 21, 2011    

 The rupee’s recent drop will not be reversed till capital inflows resume substantially and the RBI tames inflationary expectations.
 #ConnectTheDots  #Dollar  #Rupee  #safe havens  #Switzerland


#WhatNext
All eyes on US Fed, you can expect an easier policy 
Sep 21, 2011    

 The central bank appears likely to try to push long-term borrowing costs lower by rebalancing its $2.8-trillion portfolio of bond holdings to weight it more heavily to longer-term securities. Such a move would fly in the face of Republican objections to Fed activism.
 #Banking  #Ben Bernanke  #Central bank  #Federal Reserve System  #Inflation  #WhatNext


#WhileYouWereSleeping
Yesterday’s gone, and market rally may have gone too   
Sep 21, 2011    

 Early cues from Asian markets point to a reversal of yesterday’s rally in Mumbai. Markets are also bracing for the Fed’s announcement of  ‘Operation Twist’.  
 #BSE  #Equity market  #Eurozone  #Operation Twist  #Wall Street  #Whileyouweresleeping






















Editor's picks

Today Yesterday Mon 09.19 Sun 09.18 Sat 09.17 Fri 09.16 







Was Chidu note on spectrum to PM a covert nod to Raja?
A note from then Finance Minister P Chidambaram to the PM suggests that he did not raise any objection to Raja’s telecom licence allocations.




 

Rajiv's assassination: 'Only a mother will know this pain'
Arputham Ammal, the 65-year-old mother of one of the three on death row in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case, opens her heart.




 

US bristles as India, Brics take own line on Palestine
The US is miffed that India, which it has backed for a permanent Security Council seat, is not going to toe its line on Palestinian statehood. 




 

Why the rupee is down - and only capital flows can rescue it
The rupee’s recent drop will not be reversed till capital inflows resume substantially and the RBI tames inflationary expectations.








Tale of two fasts: Why Modi's worked and Vaghela's didn't
The fasts reflect the contrasting approaches of the Congress and the BJP to their parties in states. The former is too insecure about strong state leaders while the latter is comfortable with them. 




 

Investors learn to live with Ambani's 'sharp elbow' practices
Bernstein underlines the fact that the “Anil Ambani group’s history with minority shareholders is poor”.




 

Rakhi and Ramdev: On sexy gurus and their babes
From Rajneesh to Nithyananda, India is the land of the sexy gurus. But the Rakhi and Ramdev circus offers a refreshing twist on an old tale.




 

Conflict is always in N Srinivasan's interest
The new BCCI president has shown that he is adept at wearing many hats. But so far, he has done the waiting. But now, the others wait, in the shadows.






 

The Narendra Modi fast: All hail India's new Caesar!
The Narendra Modi show is like a Cecil B Demille film on India’s new Caeser. And what he is offering is Caeserism – the possibility of a popularly elected autocrat who can provide stability, efficiency and growth.




 

Problem is Rahul-flation: Why RBI is failing with rate hikes 
The battle over the RBI’s rate hikes is misplaced. It is the populist spending schemes of the UPA — intended to secure Rahul Gandhi’s future — that are driving inflation, not fuel or food prices. 




 

The importance of being Mallika Sarabhai
Her detractors say Mallika Sarabhai should just shut up and dance instead of spewing accusations against Narendra Modi. But Mallika Sarabhai was never very good at shutting up. And attacking her personal life isn’t going to make her go away either.




 

Is Anil Kumble the solution to India's problems?
The truth is that India’s problems aren’t just the selectors or other employees and for any real reform, the Board’s policies will need to change.








Modi denies fast is aimed at projecting himself as PM 
In an interview to CNN-IBN, Modi explains that he wants the Gujarat model of development to become the template for the whole of India. 




 

Modi's fast: A blend of politics, spirituality, spin and hype
 It’s a PR exercise planned and executed with the masterly precision. Modi came across as a brilliant event manager more than anything else. 




 

Monkey 2 is still streets ahead of experts in stock gain
Our two Monkey portfolios – a randomly selected list from BSE 100 and BSE 500 – are doing quite well, thank you. 







The  rollercoaster ride for gold  is far from over
Gold’s correlation to the stock market has become more positive, meaning it is more prone to move in tandem with equities than before






 

The rebranding of Narendra Modi gets under way
Modi’s tone and tenor ahead of the Sadbhavana Mission point to a leader who is conscious that a bigger political destiny awaits and who wants to present a “kinder, gentler” image of himself.   







A Chief Justice of India says "I am sorry" but 30 years too late
It’s big news when a former Chief Justice of India apologises for a judgement. But Justice P N Bhagwati’s apology for his role in a historic case during the Emergency is too little, too late and needs to be taken with a big grain of salt.







Facebook’s new ‘Subscribe’ button finally gives users control 
Seven years after launch, Facebook finally gives users control over whose updates they see in their stream, letting users follow another’s public updates without having to friend them. 







ODI cricket turned its back on Dravid, yet he created wonders
It was a form of cricket, which, no matter what the statistics say, never truly seemed to be his – and yet a form in which he performed and created wonders.








Subbarao to finmin: We're right on inflation, don't screw it
The Reserve Bank’s policy stance remains hawkish as inflation is far from being tamed. Governor Subbarao has stayed the course.




 

Modi's Gujarat best-placed to benefit from DMIC go-ahead
The UPA cabinet cleared the $90 billion Delhi-Mumbai Industrial Corridor. Gujarat is best placed to benefit from the investments. 




 

Google's Chrome Web Store comes to India: Our 5 fave apps
Google has launched its app store for its Chrome web browser in India. From games to tools to help you keep up with all of your social networks, we let you know our five favourite apps to help you get started.




 

Gora Panju vs kaali Madrasi blog wars: Ethnic stereotypes are so 20th century
All this blather about ‘dumb’ Punjabis or ‘ugly’ Tamilians is not just offensive, but also sadly outdated. We now have an urban tribe of professionals who have more in common with each other than with members of their community. 






















About Firstpost
RSS
Newsletter
Twitter

Facebook





Verticals

Front page
Politics
World
Business
Economy
Investing
Living
Ideas
Bollywood
Sports



Trending

#Rajiv Gandhi#Sikkim#P Chidambaram#Roger Federer#Facebook



Topics

Everonn
Sikkim
N Srinivasan
Mallika Sarabhai
GVK
Anant Pai
Rahul Dravid

View more



Copyright © 2011 Firstpost — All rights reserved
Terms of use
Privacy
Advertise







moneycontrol.com
ibnlive.com
in.com
tech2.com
cricketnext.com




























