Sikkim earthquake: Death toll crosses 80 | Vishwa Samvada Kendra






Home
About
Pungava
Contact Us
Twitter
Subscribe
Submit News
ಯುಗಾದಿಯಾ ಬರುವಿನೆಡೆಗೆ





 RSS Feed		
					   Twitter 










News Digest

Hindu Samajotsav

Rss Protest



News

Articles

Photos

News Photo

Notice Board

Organisation Profiles

Publications

Videos

Others

ABPS









Sikkim earthquake: Death toll crosses 80
September 19th, 2011, 4:04 am   



Sikkim earthquake: Landslides hamper rescue efforts, toll 80

GANGTOK/NEW DELHI: The death toll in the powerful Sunday earthquake has increased to 80 with many people being killed in Sikkim, five in West Bengal, two in Bihar, seven each in Nepaland Tibet even as rescue and relief operations were stepped up in the affected areas.
Over a hundred people have been injured in the 6.8 magnitude tremblor which has caused extensive damage to buildings and roads in Sikkim and several other places.The casualties have occurred mostly in the North District and in towns and villages like Rangpo, Dikchu, Singtam and Chungthang located along the course of Teesta river, they said.In Gangtok, power was restored this morning. Residents had spent the night outside their houses fearing aftershocks. At least 20 aftershocks throughout the night had created panic in the city. The road network and telecommunication system have been affected.
There are fears that several tourists may still be trapped in Gangtok and the surrounding areas. Gangtok is barely 54 km from the epicentre and several tourists may be spread across the many tourist spots around the capital city.
Meanwhile, rain and landslides have hampered the massive rescue efforts of hundreds of workers searching for survivors.
According to reports from Union home ministry, there are 16 landslides in a stretch of 10 km in Sikkim. Reports say several important roads in the state have been washed away and the main highway has been blocked.
Nearly 400 personnel of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) reached the Bagdogra airport on Monday morning. The NDRF personnel will be airlifted to the epicentre of the earthquake for the rescue operation. Five more rescue teams have also left Kolkata for Gangtok.
The earthquake has also triggered off landslides, blocking off nearly all roads towards Sikkim’s capital Gangtok. Personnel of the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) are working on a war footing to clear the blocked roads.
712 personnel of ITBP are already engaged in rescue and relief operations in Sikkim.
The Army has deployed a total of 72 columns including infantry troops and combat engineers, four Dhruv and five Cheetah helicopters.
IAF has deployed 2 C-130J ‘Super Hercules’ aircraft from Hindan airbase to Bagdogra, carrying 9 tonne of relief material and 200 National Disaster Relief Force personnel. One IL-76 plane hsa been sent from Agra to Bagdogra via Kolkata, carrying 8 tonne of relief material and 110 passengers. Also, an AVRO from Palam, with a 20 member Medical Team, 2 AN-32 medium lift aircraft from Agra, and 8 helicopters have been pressed into service for relief and rescue operations.
West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has left Kolkata for Darjeeling to hold a meeting with the administration at Kurseong at 3pm. Banerjee will be assessing the situation after the meeting in Kurseong with the top brass of the administration. She is likely to visit some worst hit areas in Darjeeling district and give necessary instructions for the rebuilding work.
Mamata Banerjee has announced compensation worth Rs 2 lakh to the family of the deceased. The West Bengal chief minister has postponed her election campaign in Bhawanipore to September 22, where she was supposed to hold a rally on Tuesday. Banerjee is looking to get elected from Bhawanipore assembly constituency in the assembly byelection.
Meanwhile, the quake was felt all the way to Delhi as well as in Bangladesh, shaking buildings. At least 10 people were injured and some buildings suffered minor damage.
Chinese state-run news agency Xinhua reported that at least seven persons have been killed and 22 others injured in Tibet in the quake which has caused landslides and has disrupted traffic, power and water supplies as well as telecommunication in Yadong County, an area 40 km away from Sikkim.
Three people were killed at Lainchaur in Kathmandu, two in Sunsari district, and one each in Dhankuta and Sankhuwasabha districts in eastern Nepal, according to home ministry sources in the Nepalese capital.
(Source: TOI-With inputs from Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay in Kolkata, Sachchidanand Jha in Patna, Vishwa Mohan and Rajat Pandit in New Delhi)



 Posted in News Digest 
Simillar Posts
RSS Swayamsevaks at rescue operations at Chennai Train accident
RSS Swayamsevaks in rescue operation during Kalka train derailing
RSS strongly condemns Mumbai terror attacks, says Dr Manmohan Vaidya in Bangalore
Flash floods – RSS relief updates and appeal
Bomb explodes at Delhi High Court kills 12, injures 62 : HuJi claims responsibility
 							
															You can leave a response, or trackback from your own site.
	
													




Leave a Reply

Click here to cancel reply.



Name (required)

Mail (will not be published) (required)

Native place























News Watch



RSS Bangalore: A lecture prog on Deendayal Upadhyay Sept 25 


Ahead of Yatra, LK Adavani meets RSS Chief Mohan Bhagwar at Nagpur 


106th anniversary of Vande Mataram celebrated 


National conference of Rashtriya Shaikshik Mahasangh 


Samskrit Bharati training helps over 90 lakh people to speak in Sanskrit 


Sikkim earthquake: Death toll crosses 80 


ಪುತ್ತೂರು ವಿದ್ಯಾರ್ಥಿಗಳ ಸಾಧನೆ: ಅಳಲೇಕಾಯಿ ಶಾಯಿಯ ಅಮೆರಿಕ ಯಾತ್ರೆ 


Google doodles Amar Chitra Katha creator Anant Pai of Mangalore 




Read More

Recent Articles



WHISTLE-BLOWERS MUST BE HAILED, NOT JAILED: Advani 


Synopsis of Book on Mata Amritanandamayi 


ಜನ ಲೋಕಪಾಲ್ : ನಾವೇನು ಮಾಡಬೇಕು? 


Islamic bank is like a boiled ice cream; it cannot exist in real life: By Subramanian Swamy 


ಹಿಂದುತ್ವ ಮತ್ತು ಆಧುನಿಕ ಆರ್ಥಿಕ ಸವಾಲುಗಳು: ಎಸ್. ಗುರುಮೂರ್ತಿ 




Read More

 ABPS Updates 



Sarasanghachalak honors KN Bhat 


ಪತ್ರಕರ್ತರೊಂದಿಗೆ ಭಯ್ಯಾಜಿ – ಆರೆಸ್ಸೆಸ್ ಸರಕಾರ್ಯವಾಹ 


Press Conference by RSS Gen Sec Bhaiyyaji Joshi 


Press-briefing by Ram Madhav: ಪತ್ರಕರ್ತ ಸಂವಾದದಲ್ಲಿ ರಾಮ್ ಮಾಧವ್ 


ABPS resolution-2: Defeat Chinese Designs against  our National Interests and Security 


RSS to pass resolution on Corruption: Dr Vaidya in Press briefing 


RSS national annual meet; ABPS-2011 inaugurated at Puttur 


Anuual report: by RSS General Secretary Suresh Joshi 




 Featured Video








Notice Board





Pungava E Paper
      15-09-2011
         




 Previous Issues:
   
  
   15-09-2011   
  
  
   01-09-2011   
  
  
   15-08-2011   
  
  
   01-08-2011   
  
  
   15-07-2011   

 Old Issues/Archives

Photo of the Week


Subscribe
Your email: 
Click here to subscribe to free SMS news alerts





Edited & Published by: Vishwa Samvada Kendra, Karnataka 
Designed and Hosted by:  Dhyeya

 © Copyright 2008 VSK, All Rights Reserved.  
Powered by WordPress | Free WordPress News Theme by Free WordPress Themes | Thanks to Premium Themes and WordPress 3 Themes





Highslide for Wordpress Plugin


