SiliconIndia.com - powered by FeedBurner
&
SiliconIndia.com
syndicated content powered by FeedBurner
...
Reset this favorite; show all Subscribe options
Subscribe Now!
...with web-based news readers. Click your choice below:
...with other readers:
(Choose Your Reader)FeedDemonNetNewsWireNewsFireNewsGator Outlook EditionRSSOwlShrookUniversal Subscription Mechanism (USM)
 View Feed XML
FeedBurner makes it easy to receive content updates in My Yahoo!, Newsgator, Bloglines, and other news readers.
Learn more about syndication and FeedBurner...
Current Feed Content
The Twitter War on Modi
It all began with Sushma Swaraj's statement that People's Democratic Party's Chief Mehbooba Mufti had praised Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra Modi, a statement that lead to a war of words between the political rivals in Jammu and Kashmir.
    
Spend Rs.36 a Day and You are No More Poor
According to the Planning Commission of India, anyone spending more than Rs.36 a day cannot be poor in India.
    
New Trends Of Education In India
Status of higher education in India is getting flexible day by day. Universities throughout the country are creating opportunities to the students to select their interested courses.
    
Myths about Innovation
As is fertilizers required for good crops, so is innovation for a healthy organization. Indeed the creation of new products, services, processes and profit models fuels the growth not just of companies but also of national and global economics.
    
Liquid Technology Unveiled by NSN to Restraint network congestion
Nokia Siemens Networks (NSN) launches its new Liquid technology which promises to ease telecom network jamming and perhaps change the market for such equipment for good.
    
Facebook Enhances New Features
As rival Google+ opened its membership to the world, the popular social network giant Facebook is busy enhancing its "News Feed" section.
    
Taking On Facebook, Google Opens Up Google Plus
Google today launched its social network site Google Plus for everyone, after a testing period of 12 weeks with a limited audience.
    
Will People's Power Explode Govt's Nuclear Plans?
The deadlock over the Koodankulam nuclear power remains, even as the efforts of the prime minister's ambassador to crack the frost made little progress, and the fast by locals challenging the project entered its 11th day.
    
Chronicles of TCS by Ramadorai
There will be lot of interesting lessons in achievers life. Their stories have a larger impact on implied readers.
    
Are You A First Time Manager? Do's and Don'ts for You
Being a manager in an organization is big step towards an employee's career. But at the same time it's a very challenging task too.
    
Things You Should Know About Personal Loans
Personal loans are one of the simplest forms of loans as there is no restriction on the purpose of its use.
A personal loan does not require collateral.
    
India Lacks Quake Preparedness: Experts
Pointing to an increase in tectonic activities that escalate the chances of more earthquakes in India, experts say the country's preparedness to deal with the disasters seems to be missing.
    
Newgen recognized in Document Output for CCM  by Forrester
Newgen Software,today announced that it has been positioned, in The Forrester Wave: Document Output for Customer Communications Management, Q3 2011.
    
How Netflix Screwed-up
In 97, Netflix came up with the DVDs by mail service, which became an almost instantaneous hit among the American public.
    
Global Economy In a Dangerous Phase: IMF
Portraying a gloomy outlook for the global economy, International Monetary Fund (IMF) today said that it is in a dangerous phase as business activity has weakened and confidence has fallen sharply.
    
Coal India Not Concerned About New Bills
World's largest miner Coal India today said it was not concerned over the new mines and land acquisition rehabilitation bill as long as it helps in getting land for mining.
    
Nissan Says Low-Cost Vehicle Plan With Bajaj on Track
Nissan scotched rumours that its alliance with Bajaj Auto for developing an ultra low-cost vehicle was on a shaky ground, saying it is still in talks with the Indian auto major for the project.
    
Vijaya Bank Sheds Rs. 2000cr of Bulk Deposit in Apr-Aug
Bangalore-based public sector lender Vijaya Bank today said it has retired around Rs. 2,000 crore of bulk deposits in the first five months of the current fiscal to protect its net interest margin.
    
Anand Sharma Calls for Greater US Investment in India
Minister of Commerce and Industry Anand Sharma today urged greater US investment in India, saying his country was the best and safest place for investments.
    
Senior Techie Job Fair 
Silicon India is coming up with a Senior Techie Job Fair on 24th September 2011 in Bangalore.
    
FeedBurner delivers the world's subscriptions wherever they need to go. Publish a feed for text or podcasting? 
You should try FeedBurner today.
