Sikkim Earthquake



Darjeeling Tea
Thunderbolt Tea's Official Darjeeling Tea blog




Subscribe to RSS


Home
About







Tag Archives | sikkim earthquake


Darjeeling – Sikkim Earthquake, 6.8 richter scale shakeBy Benoy on September 18, 2011 in darjeeling tea, darjeeling tea news 

Brief Darjeeling news update: Darjeeling and Sikkim along with the rest of North East India with some adjoining states experienced a 6.8 Richter Scale magnitude earthquake just about 2 hours ago. Sikkim being the epicenter of the earthquake (was 64-68 km away from Gangtok), Darjeeling hills experienced a strong shake. Till now we have news that 6 people have died in parts of Sikkim and in Nepal 9 casualties have been reported, but these are tentative news. Northern parts of Sikkim seems to have involved in greater damage.



We were watching TV when everything started shaking, we all got out of our houses and assembled on open grounds far away from buildings or anything concrete. Luckily our area seems fine and we are safe. Thanks to the almighty. No electricity is available in Darjeeling, Gangtok and surrounding areas.
Plains of Siliguri (75 kms away from Darjeeling) seems to have experienced some damages with a few buildings collapsing, but no news of loss of life has been heard till this hour.
Luckily most of the Darjeeling Tea garden area seems to be fine as well, according to phone conversation with some of my tea garden manager friends. The majority of population of the Darjeeling Hills resides in the tea gardens and hope all of them are doing fine.
Hoping for good news from all around from all areas affected by the earthquake. Keeping our fingers crossed!



Update on Sikkim Earthquake, 19th September 2011:
Confirmed Reports on Sikkim Earthquake as of today: 19th September, 2011:
It has been confirmed by the media that 9 people have died in Sikkim alone. The district of Darjeeling: 2 in Siliguri, 1 in Kurseong and 1 in Kalimpong.
It has been reported that a gigantic rock under the Kanchendzonga (also known as Mt. Kanchenjunga) belt measuring about 20 km moved southward in the now reported 6.9 richter scale Sikkim-Darjeeling earthquake. According to Supriyo Mirta, a seismologist, said, “The movement of rock associated with the 6.9 event on the western side of Sikkim is likely to have caused a pileup of strain toward its east leading to the two subsequent events” – the first earthquake was followed by 2 smaller earthquakes of 4.8 and 4.6 magnitude. It is believed that the Himalayan zone marks the zone where India is slipping below Tibet at about 18 mm per year. This tectonic plate movement seems to build up the stress causing such earthquakes.



The 6.9 Sikkim Earthquake is believed to have released energy which is 22 times the energy released by the atomic bomb dropped on Hiroshima or equivalent to 340000 tons of TNT. The earthquake’s exact epicenter is now revealed as “Mangan” in Sikkim which is about 66-68 km away from the capital of Sikkim, Gangtok. It has been reported locally that a volcano like eruption happened from the ground which sent some houses flying high above the ground.
Date: 20th September, 2011:
Sikkim Earthquake death toll rises above 40 alone in Sikkim.
Update Sikkim-Darjeeling earthquake, 21st September, 2011:
The death toll in the Sikkim Earthquake has risen: Till date, Sikkim has been the worst hit, specially North Sikkim, with Mangan and Chungthang being the main epicenter. Most of the Mangan area has been cut off; for example at Theeng nearly 200 meters of road has been swept off due to landslide and boulders falling apart – there is no existence of any road in the real sense and the army is forced to cut inside the hill to make way for traffic. The death toll may rise higher as not all of the quake hit areas have been surveyed so far as these areas are cut off. The army is on foot to such areas. Till date the death toll in Sikkim alone has gone above 50+. Major cause of deaths in the Sikkim seems to be boulders falling, landslides and house collapse. A lot of army stand points in Sikkim guarding the border areas seems to have been destroyed which includes deep burrowed bunker camps. This has been perceived by notable figures as a high risk on national security.
It has been reported that there were 15 deaths in West Bengal with Bihar accounting 3 deaths. 9 deaths in the neighboring country, Nepal and 3 deaths in Tibet.
The Darjeeling earthquake paper reported to Kolkata by the DM of Darjeeling states a Darjeeling district wise loss of 3500 crores. It seems that 2800 houses in Darjeeling district has been totally destroyed with 52 thousand more houses sustaining damages to a certain extent.
The only Darjeeling Tea garden which encountered some damages was Tumsong Tea Estate where houses were damaged and roads were cracked – no loss of life has been reported.



Comments { 0 } 



Darjeeling Tea Blog
Welcome to our Darjeeling Tea blog, the official blog for Thunderbolt Tea - a Darjeeling Tea supplier based in Darjeeling, exclusively dealing with exotic varieties of Darjeeling Teas only. Here we will share our tea experiences and update you of our Darjeeling Tea offers from time to time. Hope you enjoy your stay here!We would love to have your feedbacks - Please feel free to comment on any of the posts and if you can refer us to your friends and family, we would be honored! Thanks - +Benoy Thapa

Follow Us!
 

Latest
Popular Comments Tags 




Darjeeling – Sikkim Earthquake, 6.8 richter scale shake
September 18, 2011



Darjeeling Tea Plantation – Badamtam Tea Garden
September 13, 2011



The cow that improved Jethi’s life
September 12, 2011



Darjeeling Tea’s digital voyage through Thunderbolt Tea
September 11, 2011





Darjeeling Tea’s digital voyage through Thunderbolt Tea
September 11, 2011



The cow that improved Jethi’s life
September 12, 2011



Darjeeling Tea Plantation – Badamtam Tea Garden
September 13, 2011



Darjeeling – Sikkim Earthquake, 6.8 richter scale shake
September 18, 2011






badamtam buddha statue
badamtam tea garden
benoy tea
darjeeling
darjeeling earthquake
darjeeling news
darjeeling tea
darjeeling tea estates
darjeeling tea gardens
darjeeling tea plantation
darjeeling tea plantations
darjeeling tea women pluckers
darjeeling tea worker
makaibari
makaibari tea
makaibari tea estate
rajah banerjee
sikkim
sikkim darjeeling earthquake
sikkim earthquake
sikkim earthquake 2011
sikkim news 


  


 






© 2011 Darjeeling Tea. All Rights Reserved.  

	
	Thunderbolt Tea: Is a Darjeeling Tea supplier / merchant based in Darjeeling supplying exotic range of First Flush Darjeeling, Second Flush Darjeeling and Autumn Flush Darjeeling Teas.     
	
	






























 