Relief, rescue operations on after Sikkim earthquake - Times Of India





You are here: Home>CollectionsRelief, rescue operations on after Sikkim earthquakeJayanta Gupta, TNN Sep 20, 2011, 02.22pm ISTTags:Sikkim earthquake|earthquake north east IndiaKOLKATA: Rescue and relief operations resumed in Sikkim since early in the morning on Tuesday with the weather showing signs of improvement. Road opening parties succeeded in restoring communication along NH31A and work was continuing to repair the North Sikkim Highway to Mangan and Chungthang. Fifteen helicopters have been pressed into service to evacuate casualties and deploy rescue and relief columns in the affected areas of north and west Sikkim. Sikkim governor BP Singh met senior Army and civil administration officials during the day to take stock of the situation. Lt Gen Bikram Singh, GOC-in-C, Eastern Command, also visited the earthquake-affected areas and met his senior staff officers to discuss the progress of Operation Trishakti Madad, the massive operation launched by the Army's 33 Corps to provide relief to those affected by Sunday's earthquake. Sikkim chief minister Pawan Chamling also visited affected areas near the state capital Gangtok. West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee also reached Gangtok during the day and will meet Chamling around 6 pm. It is expected that Mamata will assure Chamling all assistance in providing relief to those affected. Congress general secretary Rahul Gandhi will also visit Sikkim on Wednesday and travel upto Chungthang.


 According to the Army, nearly 2,000 civilians are being provided shelter at eight Army relief camps at Gangtok, Chungthang, Pegong and Darjeeling. There are 400 others who have sought shelter at relief camps set up by the Indo-Tibetan Border Police. Several children from these camps even returned home on Tuesday and attended school. "The road to Mangan is gradually getting cleared and Army columns with relief material are moving towards the affected areas. We are in constant touch with our troops who have already managed to reach the affected parts and set up camp. Immediately after the earthquake, troops from high-altitude camps started trekking towards the affected areas with whatever material was available. On Monday, when weather improved, Special Forces personnel slithered from helicopters into affected villages. Medical camps were set up and arrangements were made for casualty evacuation," an officer said. 21 engineering columns of the Army succeeded in restoring partial road connectivity to parts of north Sikkim on Tuesday. Telecommunications and power lines, that snapped due to the earthquake, were also restored. In spite off all efforts, the highway to Gangtok remained badly affected due to landslides. One such spot was Sankhola where a temporary road has been constructed on the debris from Sunday's landslide.


FEATURED ARTICLESDiabetic? Forget pills, pop almondsVidya in The Dirty PictureBodyguard: Movie ReviewMore:Clove, the best antioxidant spiceNumber of students applying for educational loans doubles in 5 years2,000-yr-old box can shed new light on Jesus deathWhen and why do we celebrate Engineer's Day?Foods for your eyes, skin, hairIndian names in Swiss bank disclosure to WikiLeaks?


 RELATED ARTICLESEast & north India quake: 6 dead and countingSeptember 18, 2011Sikkim earthquake toll rises to 50September 19, 2011THE TIMES OF INDIA© 2011 Bennett, Coleman & Co. Ltd. All rights reservedIndex by Keyword|Index by Datewww.timesofindia.comFeedback|Privacy Policy|Terms of Use|Advertise with us



















