Death toll up to 156 as earthquake hits China's Sichuan province |
			The Australian








Skip to:
Main Content
Site Navigation
Site Footer
Site Search
Site Map
Network Navigation (other sites)








Login
Sign Up





Login using your Newspass account


User Login

Username *



Password *





Remember me








Login






Forgot your password?




Subscribe now to access The Australian
Subscribe









news.com.au
Fox Sports
CareerOne
Carsguide
RealEstate
News Network




The Australian














News


Opinion


National Affairs


Business


Aus IT


Higher Ed


Media


Sport


Arts


Life


Magazines


Careers


Video


						National
		

The Australian


news.com.au


FOXSPORTS


SportingPulse


Business Spectator


Eureka Report





						State and Territory
		

The Telegraph


Courier Mail


Herald Sun


AdelaideNow


Perth Now


NT News


The Mercury





						Regional and Community
		

Townsville Bulletin


Cairns.com.au


Goldcoast.com.au


Geelong Advertiser


Weekly Times Now


Community Newspapers





						Classifieds
		

Classifieds


Place my ad


CareerOne


Carsguide


Realestate.com.au


TrueLocal





						Lifestyle
		

Vogue


Taste


Kidspot


body+soul


homelife





						Marketplace
		

Moshtix


Foxtix


Getprice


Shopferret


OurDeal


WeGo Travel


Learning Seat






 



News


Breaking News


The Nation


The World


Features


In-Depth


Galleries


Investigations


FOI


Health & Science


Weather


Events



 






Search for:













Weather: 


						Sydney 13°C
						-
						21°C
.
					 Mostly sunny.
				
 










News





						Death toll up to 156 as earthquake hits China's Sichuan province
				





From:

	        AP
							


April 21, 2013
12:14PM





Increase Text Size
Decrease Text Size
Print

Email


Share

Add to Digg
Add to del.icio.us
Add to Facebook
Add to Kwoff
Add to Myspace
Add to Newsvine
What are these?



 









Massive quake hits China



There are reports of hundred of people who have been killed and injured following a shallow earthquake in the Sichuan province





 
 
 



				A POWERFUL earthquake has struck China's Sichuan province, leaving at least 156 people dead and more than 5,500 injured.
				



Residents huddled outdoors on Saturday night in a town near the epicenter of the quake that struck the steep hills of Sichuan province.Saturday morning's earthquake triggered landslides and disrupted phone and power connections in mountainous Lushan county five years after a devastating quake wreaked widespread damage across the region. The village of Longmen was hit particularly hard, with authorities saying nearly all the buildings there had been destroyed in a frightening minute-long shaking by the quake.In nearby Ya'an town, where aftershocks could be felt nearly 20 hours after the quake, residents sat in groups outside convenience stores watching the news on television sets. Fourteen-year-old Wang Xing sat with her family on chairs by the roadside in the cool night air, a large blanket on her lap.




















Wang and her relatives said they planned to spend the night in their cars. "We don't feel safe sleeping at home tonight," said Wang, a student. She said the quake left tears on the walls of her family's house. "It was very scary when it happened. I ran out of my bed and out of the house. I didn't even have my shoes on."Along the main roads leading to the worst-hit county of Lushan, ambulances, fire engines and military trucks piled high with supplies waited in long lines, some turning back to try other routes when roads were impassable.







A giant rock blocks the road, about 20 kilometers from the county seat of Lushan in Ya'an city, southwest China's Sichuan Province. Picture: AP 




Rescuers turned the square outside the Lushan County Hospital into a triage center, where medical personnel bandaged bleeding victims, according to footage on China Central Television. Rescuers dynamited boulders that had fallen across roads to reach Longmen and other damaged areas lying farther up the mountain valleys, state media reported.The China Earthquake Administration said at least 156 people had died, including 96 in Lushan. In the jurisdiction of Ya'an, which administers Lushan, 19 people were reported missing and more than 5,500 people were injured, the administration said.The quake - measured by the earthquake administration at magnitude-7.0 and by the US Geological Survey at 6.6 - struck the steep hills of Lushan county shortly after 8 a.m., when many people were at home, sleeping or having breakfast. People in their underwear and wrapped in blankets ran into the streets of Ya'an and even the provincial capital of Chengdu, 115 kilometers east of Lushan, according to photos, video and accounts posted online.The quake's shallow depth, less than 13 kilometers, likely magnified the impact.Chengdu's airport shut down for about an hour before reopening, though many flights were canceled or delayed, and its railway station halted dozens of scheduled trains, state media said.







A man carries an injured woman to a temporary treatment station after an earthquake in Lushan county in Ya'an in southwest China's Sichuan province Saturday, April 20, 2013. 




Lushan reported the most deaths, but there was concern that casualties in neighboring Baoxing county might have been under-reported because of inaccessibility after roads were blocked and power and phone services cut off.As the region went into the first night after the quake, rain started to fall, slowing rescue work. Forecasts called for more rain in the next several days, and the China Meteorological Administration warned of possible landslides and other geological disasters.Tens of thousands of people moved into tents or cars, unable to return home or too afraid to go back as aftershocks continued to jolt the region.Lushan, where the quake struck, lies where the fertile Sichuan plain meets foothills that eventually rise to the Tibetan plateau and sits atop the Longmenshan fault. It was along that fault line that a devastating magnitude-7.9 quake struck on May 12, 2008, leaving more than 90,000 people dead or missing and presumed dead in one of the worst natural disasters to strike China in recent decades."It was just like May 12," Liu Xi, a writer in Ya'an city, who was jolted awake by Saturday's quake, said via a private message on his account on Sina Corporation's Twitter-like Weibo service. "All the home decorations fell at once, and the old house cracked."







Nurses help an injured man at a temporary treatment station after an earthquake in Lushan county in Ya'an in southwest China's Sichuan province Saturday, April 20, 2013. 




The official Xinhua News Agency said the well-known Bifengxia panda preserve, which is near Lushan, was not affected by the quake. Dozens of pandas were moved to Bifengxia from another preserve, Wolong, after its habitat was wrecked by the 2008 quake.As in most natural disasters, the government mobilized thousands of soldiers and others - 7,000 people by Saturday afternoon - sending excavators and other heavy machinery as well as tents, blankets and other emergency supplies. Two soldiers died after the vehicle that they and more than a dozen others were in slipped off the road and rolled down a cliff, state media reported.Premier Li Keqiang flew to Ya'an to direct rescue efforts, and he and President Xi Jinping ordered officials and rescuers to make saving people the top priority, Xinhua said.The Chinese Red Cross said it had deployed relief teams with supplies of food, water, medicine and rescue equipment to the disaster areas.With roads blocked for several hours after the quake, the military surveyed the disaster area by air. Aerial photos released by the military and shown on state television showed individual houses in ruins in Lushan and outlying villages flattened into rubble. The roofs of some taller buildings appeared to have slipped off, exposing the floors beneath them.A person whose posts to the micro-blogging account "Qingyi Riverside" on Weibo carried a locator geotag for Lushan said many buildings collapsed and that people could spot helicopters hovering above.The earthquake administration said there had been at least 712 aftershocks, including two of magnitude-5.0 or higher."It's too dangerous," said a person with the Weibo account Chengduxinglin and with a Lushan geotag. "Even the aftershocks are scary."While rescuers and state media rushed to the disaster scene, China's active social media users filled the information gap. They posted photos of people fleeing to streets for safety and of buildings flattened by the quake. They shared information on the availability of phone services, apparently through data services.






Increase Text Size
Decrease Text Size
Print

Email


Share

Add to Digg
Add to del.icio.us
Add to Facebook
Add to Kwoff
Add to Myspace
Add to Newsvine
What are these?





Back to top of page








































MORE FROM THE NATION








Rolf Harris TV shows pulled off air



		SHOWS starring Rolf Harris have been pulled from British television after the Australian was named in the press as the entertainer arrested by police.
	 

 





 Sudan brought into heart of Oz sport 
 Australian jailed in China to be freed 
 NZ moves on accused people-smuggler 
 Cut flat size to aid buyers: Triguboff 

 
 




TODAY'S HEADLINES









Abbott pledges cuts but not 'austerity'




Rick Morton
 
		AN incoming Coalition government would promise much less in spending than Labor but it would be far from an "austerity" regime, Tony Abbott says.
			
 

 





 FBI probed bomb suspect in 2011  
 Abbott admits 'danger' of boats policy 
 PM steels party for education fight  
 Lib staffer had drunken 'brain snap'  

 
 
















 Paul Kelly





'Under this government, the ALP and the labour movement have been devouring each other'



		UNDER this government, the ALP and the labour movement have been devouring each other.
	 

 
 

 Dennis Shanahan





'The PM has suffered a stunning setback in her keynote campaign to implement the school education reforms'



		THE Prime Minister has suffered a stunning setback in her keynote  campaign to implement the school education reforms.
	 

 
 

 Peter van Onselen





'Cutting education to fund education isn't the smoothest political message I've seen'



		FALLING tertiary teaching and entry standards require urgent attention.
	 

 
 

 Judith Sloan





'In many instances, the difficult-to-employ jobless end up on disability income support'



		PENSIONS for the disabled are a lucrative lure for those receiving jobless  benefits.
	 

 
 

 Justine Ferrari





'Julia Gillard's mishandling of her signature reform started on the day she released the Gonski report'



		JULIA Gillard's mishandling of her signature reform started in February last year on the day she released the Gonski report.
	 

 
 

 Chris Kenny





'We must wonder what the images of atrocities such as Boston do for us'



		PARENTS should consider talking their children through the many horrific images of modern life.
	 

 
 
 

Prev
1 of 6
Next

 


















LATEST NEWS VIDEO




VIDEO

































FEATURED








Boston bombings
Get all the latest news, video and pictures from the Boston Marathon bombings, which took the lives of three and wounded more than 170.









Master drought-breaker
MANY came close, but Adam Scott is the first Aussie to tame Augusta.




Prev
 of 2
Next
























						Sections
		

News


Opinion


National Affairs


Business


Australian IT


Higher Education


Media


Sport


Arts







Mobile


RSS Feeds


Newsletters


Send Stories


Subscribe





						Resources
		

Sitemap


Photo sales


News archive


Reader Offers


RSS Feeds


E-newspaper edition 





						Advertising
		

Advertise with Us





						Policies
		

Privacy


Terms





						Company Information
		

About Us


Contact Us


Job Opportunities


Code of conduct


Events










The Australian






Search for:























Terms


Privacy


Accessibility


Mobile site


Help


Feedback


Standards of practice




























