Earthquake levels buildings, kills at least 160 in Sichuan, China - UPI.com
UPI en Español  |  
								UPI Asia  |  
				About UPI  |  
								My Account
Search:
Articles
Photos
Go
Home
Top News
U.S. News
World News
Special Reports
Analysis
News Photos
Audio Archives
Entertainment
Movies
Music
TV
Entertainment Photos
Theater News
Odd News
Horoscope
Almanac
Best of Odd News
Business
Real Estate
Energy Resources
Security Industry
Crude Oil Report Analysis: Economic Outlook
Consumer Corner
Sports
Football
Baseball
Basketball
Tennis
Golf
Sports Photos
College Basketball
College Football
Science
Technology
Health
Photos
News Photos
Features
Entertainment
Sports
Archives
Columns & Blogs
Auto Outlook
Consumer Corner
Daily Mix
Economic Outlook
The Issue
SciTech Talk 
Supreme Court
Immigration Reform
Analysis
Commentary: Arnaud De Borchgrave
Walker's World
Outside View
Boston bombings manhunt
• Simpson, Bowles
•  $10B arms deal
• Venezuela election
• Midwest floods
			You are here: 
			Home
 / 
				Top News			 / World News			/ Death toll from earthquake in Sichuan, China, at least 160 
World News
Death toll from earthquake in Sichuan, China, at least 160
 |
 |    
Tweet
                        Published: April 20, 2013 at 5:26 PM            
 
BEIJING, April 20 (UPI) -- The earthquake that rocked Sichuan province in Southwest China early Saturday killed at least 160 people, officials said.
By just after midnight local time Sunday, officials said 6,700 people had been injured by the quake, Xinhua, the official government news agency, reported. The Chinese seismological center put the magnitude of the quake at 7.0 on the Richter scale, somewhat higher than the 6.6 measured by the U.S. Geological Survey.
The quake occurred on the same fault as the massive 2008 earthquake that killed almost 90,000 people, the Los Angeles Times reported.
"Comparatively speaking, the scale of the disaster is not as extensive as in 2008, although there are still multiple locations effected," Meimei Leung, emergency response director for World Vision's China office, told the newspaper.
The quake hit just after 8 a.m., the U.S. Geological Survey reported. It was centered in Ya'an, The New York Times said. The quake's center was 7.5 miles below the surface, a relatively shallow depth that usually indicates a potential for extensive damage.
President Xi Jinping ordered the Army to assist in rescue and recovery efforts, Xinhua reported.
Residents of the affected area are without power, water and communications, and in some places 90 percent of the buildings were reported destroyed.
"Now the houses on both sides of the street have become dangerous buildings," a survivor, Zhang Linpeng, told the Sichuan news service. "I've seen people trapped in the ruins, and some people died. Many of the injured have been pulled out."
Prime Minister Li Keqiang flew to Sichuan with some of his senior officials, the New York Times said.
"The current most urgent issue is grasping the first 24 hours after the quake's occurrence, the golden time for saving lives, to take scientific rescue measures and save people's lives," Li told Xinhua.
Landslides made the task of rescue more difficult. A truck carrying soldiers to the area went off a road into a river, killing one of those aboard and seriously injuring three of his comrades, the Los Angeles Times said. 
Topics: Xi Jinping 
Recommended Stories
Three Gorges Dam OK after minor quake
Quake toll reaches 81
Wen rallies rescuers in China quake zone
At least 64 dead in Chinese earthquake
		© 2013 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Any reproduction, republication, redistribution and/or modification of any UPI content is expressly prohibited without UPI's prior written consent.
Order reprints
Tweet
Next Story: Survey: Many young Poles anti-Semitic
Featured Stories
Bieber posts drawing of Belieber hookup
Father of dead Boston suspect: He was 'a true angel'
What we know about the Tsarnaev brothers, so far
Spanish anarchists send top Catholics explosive packages containing vibrators
[VIDEO] Kenyan gymnast suffers 85-foot trapeze fall, survives
Liam Hemsworth asked for Billy Ray Cyrus' permission to marry Miley 
Kim Kardashian and Kris Humphries settle divorce
WB releases new 'Man of Steel' trailer 
  
Join the conversation
Most Popular Collections
Immigration rally in Washington, D.C.
MTV Movie Awards
Cherry Blossoms in Washington, D.C.
Miss NY USA crowns ASPCA King and Queen
Academy of American Country Music Awards
2013: Celebrity break ups and divorces
Additional World News Stories
Top News
2 shot as thousands rally to celebrate marijuana in Denver
DENVER, April 20 (UPI) -- 
			Two people were shot in Denver's Civic Center Saturday where thousands of people gathered for marijuana-inspired "420 Day" festivities, paramedics said.
		
N. Korea: We may hold talks with U.S., but nuke program stays
4 fishermen missing off Texas coast; 1 other rescued
Terror suspect arrested in Chicago
Feds plan to clear up older veteran benefit claims
Entertainment News
CNN gets ratings boost during Boston bombing coverage
BOSTON, April 20 (UPI) -- 
			CNN logged a 194 percent boost in viewers Monday through Thursday compared to the previous week with coverage of the Boston marathon bombings, ratings indicate.
		
Prince Harry to participate in South Pole trek with wounded military
NBC cancels 'Ready for Love'
Willie Nelson to play benefit show for West, Texas, firefighters
Andy Johns, Rolling Stones, Led Zeppelin producer, dies
Business News
Italian train operator says Frecciarossa 1000 is world's fastest
ROME, April 20 (UPI) -- 
			The operator of Italy's new high speed Frecciarossa 1000 says the train can travel at 223 mph, making it the fastest in the world.
		
Italian tourism industry benefits from wedding business
Luxury cars to get a boost in India via EU trade agreements
Credit agency Fitch downgrades Britain
Britain's Addison Lee taxi service sold to equity group for $457M
Odd News
Russia celebrates Biblionight
MOSCOW, April 20 (UPI) -- 
			The Russian State Library opened its archives to visitors as it stayed open for Biblionight.
		
Canadian officials remind pet owners to pick up dog poo
Stonehenge seeks first-ever general manager
The almanac
Your Daily Horoscope
Most Popular
1.
4 shot in basement in Ohio
2.
Mitt Romney: President Obama gave 'superb' address at service
3.
Boston Marathon manhunt: Suspect in custody
4.
Woman takes dad's ashes to the bank to prove death
5.
CVS racist slur: Company sued for writing 'Ching Chong' on woman's receipt
Stories
Photos
Comments
sign up to receive our daily newsletter
Featured Galleries
Boston Marathon bombing suspects
Best of the Tribecca Film Festival
Service for victims of Boston Marathon bombings
Boston Marathon bombing
Obama speaks on gun legislation in Washington
Adam Scott wins Masters
Cherry Blossoms in Washington, D.C.
 
Featured Photos
1 of 32
 
View Caption
 Enlarge Photo
			The rising Mississippi River takes over the Lewis and Clark statue on the St. Louis Riverfront in St. Louis on April 19, 2013. Officials predict the Mississippi River to crest at 39.4 feet on the St. Louis riverfront on April 23. That is more than nine feet over flood stage. The record crest set back in 1993 was more than 49 feet.  UPI/Bill Greenblatt		
"Since 1978, Chicago Police have arrested her 396 times--including 92 for theft, 65 for disorderly...
Female lay judge to sue over stress caused by crime scene photos, said she "was not mentally prepared...
Rupert Murdoch apologizes for NY Post's horrible covera . . . yeah, I didn't fool you for a second...
Former Texas DA, now judge, ordered arrested for lying to the court and hiding evidence from an...
Shots fired at 4/20 rally in Denver, harshing everyone's mellow (w/video)
Photoshop this free runner
 
Official Government Wires | 
				About UPI | 
				Site Map | 
				Terms of Use | 
				Privacy Policy | 
				Advertise Online | 
				Contact Us | 
				UPI Mailing Address
Top News | 
				Entertainment News | 
				Odd News | 
				Business news | 
				Sports News | 
				Science News | 
				Health News | 
				Real Estate News | 
				News Photos
Archive | 
				Job News | 
				World News | 
				Local News | 
				U.S News | 
				Special Reports
© 2013 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
UPI.com is your trusted source for world news, top news, science news, health news and current events. We thank you for visiting us and we hope that we will be your daily stop for news updates.
				© 2013 United Press International, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
				UPI.com contains copyrighted material, trademarks and other proprietary information 
				of United Press International, Inc. ("UPI") and its third-party licensors, including, but not limited to, text, photos, 
				videos, and graphics.  Visitors to UPI.com may use this Web site solely for their own personal and non-commercial use.  
				Any reproduction, republication and/or redistribution of any content on the Web site is expressly prohibited without the 
				prior written consent of UPI or its applicable third-party licensors.  UPI and United Press International are registered 
				trademarks in the United States and in other countries.
				
