PM expresses condolences on Sichuan quake | Voxy.co.nz
Recommended NZ |
        Guide to Money |
        Gimme: Competitions - Giveaways
                    [ login or create an account ]
            
 
 
 
Blogs
Entertainment
National
Politics
Business
Sport
Lifestyle
Health
Tech 
Election|Hot Topics Index|Tax|Alcohol Law|ACC Reform|Health Sector|Employment Figures |Tobacco
 
PM expresses condolences on Sichuan quake 
 Home › Politics
Contributor:Fuseworks Media
Sunday, 21 April, 2013 - 13:07
Prime Minister John Key has today expressed condolences to the families of those who have lost their lives in the Sichuan earthquake, and those still waiting for news about loved ones.
"A 6.6 magnitude earthquake hit the Sichuan province in southwest China yesterday," says Mr Key.
"Latest reports from the Chinese authorities are that more than 160 people have lost their lives and thousands are injured.
"On behalf of the New Zealand Government and the people of New Zealand, I would like to send a message of sympathy and support to China, and to Premier Li Keqiang, who is leading the search and rescue and relief effort in Sichuan.
"I met with Premier Li in Beijing just over a week ago and we discussed cooperation on disaster relief and humanitarian matters," says Mr Key.
"New Zealanders understand all too well the devastation that can be caused by earthquakes. We were hugely grateful for China’s support following the Christchurch earthquake and New Zealand helped respond to the 2008 Sichuan quake.
"While China has not requested international assistance, New Zealand once again stands ready to provide technical support if required.
"At this stage, there are no reports of any foreign nationals being injured in the earthquake. However, the New Zealand Embassy in Beijing will continue to monitor the situation closely," says Mr Key.
New Zealanders who have concerns about family or friends in Lushan County should attempt to make contact with them directly in the first instance. If they require further assistance they should call the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade’s Consular Division on 04 439 8000 and ask to speak to a Consular Adviser. 
Tweet 
Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
Competitions and Giveaways from Gimme.co.nz
Popular competitions and giveaways from Gimme.co.nz: NZ's People Powered Guide to Free Stuff.  Links will open on Gimme.
Chelsea Sugar: Win a Professional Breville Mixer
valuedopinions.co.nz: Win a $250 Farmers gift card
olaprizes.com: Join and win $1,000 cash
more
Featured Recommendations from recommended.co.nz
Health Tips, Recommended Movies, Recommended Books, Recommended Places.
Links will open on recommended.co.nz.
A Splashing Good Time At Wellington Regional Aquatic Centre
Butlers Chocolate Cafe - Wellington
more
All articles and comments on Voxy.co.nz have been submitted by our community of users.  Please notify us through our contact form if you believe an item on this site breaches our community guidelines.
 
Voxy: Your Voice - Uncensored
About Voxy and how to Submit News
Join Voxy on Twitter, Facebook or Google+
Latest Politics News
RSS Kiwis deserve cheaper power - GreensPM expresses condolences on Sichuan quakeGovt reviewing NZDF UN commitmentsOpposition electricity plan 'will scare off investors'Govt out of touch on power prices - Parker
Most Popular Today
RSS Labour 'right to announce electricity policy ahead of float'Opposition electricity plan 'will scare off investors'Govt out of touch on power prices - ParkerNZ First proposes using Kiwisaver to re-nationalise Mighty RiverMedia Awards tickets go on sale
Featured Offers
Join NZSale for free and get a $10 voucherWin $15,000 with The Great Sites New Zealand Survey
Connect with Voxy
 
     Join Voxy on Google+.
 
 
Blogs
Entertainment
National
Politics
Business
Sport
Lifestyle
Health
Tech 
  
Copyright 2008-2013 Digital Advance Limited
About Voxy, Privacy Policy and Terms of Use | Advertise
