The Frame: China rushes relief after Sichuan quake


























Plus digital subscription sign in




Plus digital subscription sign in





Reader Services


Access your sacbee.com account
Place a classified ad
Place an obituary
Manage your sacbee.com account
Manage your subscription
Make a payment
BeeBuzzPoints Reader Rewards
Order reprints
Contact us


Stay Connected


Subscribe to The Bee
Newsletters & Alerts
Mobile
e-Edition
e-Edition on iPad
Kindle
Sony eReader
NOOK Version
Help
Archives
Contact us


Site Feedback
In Today's Paper





				Subscribe to The Bee TODAY
			








The Frame

 


News

Business
Local
Crime
Obituaries
Weather
Data Center
Investigations
Nation/World
Photos
Blogs/Columnists






Sponsored By
ROSEVILLE TOYOTA






Capitol & California

Capitol Alert
State Workers
Election 2012
Politics
State News
Jerry Brown
Marijuana
Budget
Prop 8
Blogs/Columnists






Sponsored By
California Credit Union League






Our Region

Business
Sacto 911
Arrest Logs
City Beat
Transportation
Medical
Real Estate
Our Towns
Education
Environment
Religion






Sponsored By
Roseville Toyota






Sports

Kings/NBA
49ers
Raiders
High Schools
Colleges
A's/Giants
River Cats
UFL
Golf
Fishing Line
Blogs/Columnists






Sponsored By
JOHN L. SULLIVAN CHEVROLET






Living Here

Moms & Family
Pets
Appetizers
Food & Wine
Home & Garden
Outdoors
Health & Fitness
Books & Media
Travel
Comics & Games






Sponsored By
Sutter Health






Entertainment

Events
Movies
Dining
Things to Do
Comics & Games
TV Listings
Travel
Books & Media
Music
Theater & Art
Bee Buzz Points
Horoscopes







Opinion

Editorials
Ohman Cartoons
Letters to the Editor
Dan Morain
Viewpoints
The Swarm
California Forum
Editorial Board





Cars

Bee Auto Ads
Auto Show
Buy/Sell
Research
Shopping Advice
Transportation News
Car Photos/Videos





Jobs

Healthcare/Social Service Careers
Career Fairs and Events
Post a Resume
Who's Hiring
Employer Resources
Search Classifieds





Homes

Classified Rentals
Classified Home Sales
Homefinder.com
Apartments.com
Commercial Real Estate
Community News





Classifieds

In Memoriams
Garage Sale Kit
Legal Notices
Place a classified ad







Find n Save
Dealsaver
Daily Deal
Local Coupons
Local Ads
Golf Card



















        Tuesday, April 23, 2013
    








            Web search powered by YAHOO! SEARCH
        

 This blog
 sacbee.com
 Web






Weather | Traffic

47° F

 






The Frame

A photo blog of world events by Sacbee.com Assistant Director of Multimedia Tim Reese.




 Subscribe to this blog's feed








April 23, 2013
China rushes relief after Sichuan quake




Saturday's earthquake in China's Sichuan province, measured by China's earthquake administration at magnitude 7.0 and by the U.S. Geological Survey at 6.6, killed at least 192 people, injured more than 11,000 and left nearly two dozen missing, mostly in the rural communities around Ya'an city. 
The temblor struck along the same fault line where a devastating quake to the north killed more than 90,000 people in Sichuan and neighboring areas five years ago in one of China's worst natural disasters. Relief teams flew in helicopters and dynamited through landslides to reach some of the most isolated communities, where rescuers in orange overalls led sniffer dogs through piles of brick, concrete and wood debris to search for survivors.
(26 images)

 Follow @sacbee_theframe



  


      Residents line up for packets of instant noodles in the earthquake struck county of Lushan in southwestern China's Sichuan province, Monday, April 22, 2013. Saturday's earthquake in Sichuan province killed at least 186 people, injured more than 11,000 and left nearly two dozen missing, mostly in the rural communities around Ya'an city, along the same seismic fault where a devastating quake to the north killed more than 90,000 people in Sichuan and neighboring areas five years ago in one of China's worst natural disasters.  AP / Ng Han Guan 


MORE IMAGES








      Earthquake victims sleep at a stadium after their homes were destroyed by Saturday's quake in Baoxing county of southwest China's Sichuan province Tuesday, April 23, 2013.   AP /  







      A man collects meal in the rain in the county seat of Lushan in southwestern China's Sichuan province, Tuesday, April 23, 2013.  AP /  







      In this photo provided by China's official Xinhua News Agency, medical workers take care of a newborn boy in a tent functioned as temporary hospital in quake-hit Taiping Township of Lushan, southwest China's Sichuan Province, Tuesday, April 23, 2013.  The boy's mother Yang Yan, a 20-year-old woman, and father Chen Wei arrived at the hospital in early Tuesday, after making the long journey for over three hours from their home in Xingmin village of Taiping Township, Xinhua reported.   AP / Chen Cheng 







      An elderly Chinese man waits for food to be distributed with his dog at a makeshift tent in Lushan county in southwestern China's Sichuan province, Monday, April 22, 2013.   AP / Ng Han Guan 







      A man squats near the collapsed remains of a building destroyed by Saturday's earthquake in Lushan county in southwestern China's Sichuan province, Monday, April 22, 2013.   AP / Ng Han Guan 







      Villagers have dinner near their home, damaged by Saturday's earthquake, in Lushan county of southwest China's Sichuan province on Monday, April 22, 2013.   AP /  







      Villagers gather for a meal outdoor in the quake struck Lushan county in southwestern China's Sichuan province Monday, April 22, 2013.   AP /  







      A child gets treatment in a military field hospital in the county seat of Lushan in Sichuan province, China, Monday, April 22, 2013.   AP / Ng Han Guan 







      Earthquake survivors rest in a military field hospital in the county seat of Lushan in Sichuan province, China, Monday, April 22, 2013.   AP / Ng Han Guan 







      People charge their mobile phones at a relief center in the county seat of Lushan in southwestern China's Sichuan province, Monday, April 22, 2013.    AP / Ng Han Guan 







      A child runs past residents waiting in line for packets of instant noodles in the earthquake hit county of Lushan in southwestern China's Sichuan province, Monday, April 22, 2013.  AP / Ng Han Guan 







      A Chinese man uses the cell phone charging facilities loaded in a special truck to talk on his cell phone in the earthquake struck county seat of Lushan in southwestern China's Sichuan province, Monday, April 22, 2013.   AP / Ng Han Guan 







      An elderly woman sleeps behind plastic covers along a roadside in the quake ravage county of Lushan in southwestern China's Sichuan province, Sunday, April 21, 2013.   AP / Ng Han Guan 







      An elderly woman rests on a makeshift bed setup outdoors near Shangli town in southwestern China's  Sichuan province, Sunday, April 21, 2013.   AP / Ng Han Guan 







      Villagers cry for their relatives who were killed in an earthquake during a funeral in Longmen village in Lushan county in southwest China's Sichuan province Sunday, April 21, 2013.   AP /  







      An elderly woman eats a meal near rubbish piled up at a center for evacuees in the county seat of Lushan in southwestern China's Sichuan province, Sunday, April 21, 2013.   AP / Ng Han Guan 







      A woman looks over at her destroyed house in Gucheng village in Longmen county of southwestern China's Sichuan province, Sunday, April 21, 2013.  AP / Ng Han Guan 







      A woman walks past tiles shaken from roof tops by an earthquake near Shangli town in southwestern China's Sichuan province, Sunday, April 21, 2013.   AP / Ng Han Guan 







      Zheng Xianlan, a 58-year-old corn farmer, awakens after spending the night sleeping on a sofa outside her house which was damaged by an earthquake near Shangli town in southwestern China's  Sichuan province, Sunday, April 21, 2013.   AP / Ng Han Guan 







      Ren Shuyong, 48, cries as she sits outside near Shangli town in southwestern China's Sichuan province, Sunday, April 21, 2013.   AP / Ng Han Guan 







      Soldiers unload relief supplies from a helicopter at the quake ravaged Longmen township in Lushan county of southwest China's Sichuan province on Sunday, April 21, 2013.  AP /  







      Chinese paramilitary policemen stand watch while rescuers operate backhoes to clear a damaged road due to a landslide triggered by a strong quake in Baosheng township of Lushan county in southwest China's Sichuan province Sunday April 21, 2013.   AP /  







      In this photo released by China's Xinhua news agency, people carrying their belongings walk in quake-damaged Gucheng Village, Longmen Township, Lushan County, southwest China's Sichuan Province, Saturday, April 20, 2013.   AP / Fei Maohua 







      In this photo released by China's Xinhua News Agency, residents of Yuxi Village in the quake hit Baosheng Township spend their night in temporary tents in Lushan County, Ya'an City, southwest China's Sichuan Province, Saturday, April 20, 2013.  AP / Fei Maohua 







      A village woman reacts after her house was damaged by an earthquake in Lushan county, Ya'an, southwest China's Sichuan province on Saturday, April 20, 2013.   AP /  








Posted by Tim Reese, Assistant Director of Multimedia
The Sacramento Bee

12:25 PM
12:26 PM |
		
		Comments




© Copyright The Sacramento Bee.  All rights reserved.




About Comments
Reader comments on Sacbee.com are the opinions of the writer, not The Sacramento Bee. If you see an objectionable comment, click the "report abuse" button below it. We will delete comments containing inappropriate links, obscenities, hate speech, and personal attacks. Flagrant or repeat violators will be banned. See more about comments here.


What You Should Know About Comments on Sacbee.com
Sacbee.com is happy to provide a forum for reader interaction, discussion, feedback and reaction to our stories.  However, we reserve the right to delete inappropriate comments or ban users who can't play nice. (See our full terms of service here.)
Here are some rules of the road:
• Keep your comments civil. Don't insult one another or the subjects of our articles.  If you think a comment violates our guidelines click the "report abuse" button to notify the moderators. Responding to the comment will only encourage bad behavior. 
• Don't use profanities, vulgarities or hate speech.  This is a general interest news site.  Sometimes, there are children present. Don't say anything in a way you wouldn't want your own child to hear. 
• Do not  attack other users; focus your comments on issues, not individuals. 
• Stay on topic.  Only post comments relevant to the article at hand.  If you want to discuss an issue with a specific user, click on his profile name and send him a direct message. 
• Do not copy and paste outside material into the comment box. 
• Don't repeat the same comment over and over.  We heard you the first time. 
• Do not use the commenting system for advertising. That's spam and it isn't allowed. 
• Don't use all capital letters.  That's akin to yelling and not appreciated by the audience.
You should also know that The Sacramento Bee does not screen comments before they are posted.  You are more likely to see inappropriate comments before our staff does, so we ask that you click the "report abuse" button to submit those comments for moderator review.  You also may notify us via email at feedback@sacbee.com.  Note the headline on which the comment is made and tell us the profile name of the user who made the comment. Remember, comment moderation is subjective.  You may find some material objectionable that we won't and vice versa.
If you submit a comment, the user name of your account will appear along with it.  Users cannot remove their own comments once they have submitted them, but you may ask our staff to retract one of your comments by sending an email to feedback@sacbee.com.  Again, make sure you note the headline on which the comment is made and tell us your profile name.







Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
blog comments powered by Disqus
 
 
 





Contact Us

Site Feedback
Corrections
Letters to the Editor
Bee Jobs
Subscribe to The Bee



Share Content

Share your pictures
Share your videos
News tips



Advertise With Us

Place a classified ad
Place a real estate ad
Place a rental ad
Place a newspaper ad



Online Extras

Newsletters & Alerts
Mobile
RSS Feeds
Maps & Directions






Copyright © The Sacramento Bee
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
About The Sacramento Bee
About the McClatchy Company



















