The Global Dispatch







Edition: International |  About Us
Privacy Policy
Terms and Conditions
Advertise on The Global Dispatch
Write for us



Saturday 20 April, 2013








Breaking News >


 

World NewsChina earthquake kills over 150 people, injures o...










Trending Topics:
kermit gosnell case
 - Man of Steel
 - bird flu
 - Dexter season 8
 - Boston bombing
 - dallas season 3
 - walking dead
 - Weird News
 - kendrick johnson death












China earthquake kills over 150 people, injures over 6,000  Dzhokhar Tsarnaev tweeted Jay-Z lyrics 'stay safe people' after Boston Marathon bombing Texas residents allowed to return home after fertilizer blast, killing 14 and injuring scores Chechen President blames America for Boston bombing, 'they were raised inthe US' so seek 'roots of evil in America' Car hijacked by Boston bomber had a 'Coexist' bumper sticker 








      




US Headlines
World News
US News
Blogs
Health
Religion
Hometown News
Television
Movies
Weird News


Home
CinemaCon
Syria
Egypt
The Walking Dead
Music
Business News
Bollywood News
Celebrity News
Outbreak News












Texas residents allowed to return home after fertilizer blast, killing 14 and injuring scores

 
The little town of West, not far from Waco, Texas, remains a scene of destruction, three days after an enormous explosion at a fertilizer plant. Officials now number the dead from a Central Texas fertilizer More...
by Kaye Wonderhouse | Published 43 mins ago

Abdul Rahman Ali Alharbi, ‘person of interest’ in Boston bombing, still set to be deported on Tuesday
Manhunt for Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, Boston Marathon bombing suspect, shuts down city








 


          Reports claim one Boston bombing suspect dead after shootout, one police officer dead, new photo released 




 


          FBI releases photos and video of Boston Marathon bombing suspects 




 


          Texas explosion results in missing firefighters, looting, ‘school’s gone apartment’s gone’ says witness 










 
 Will Paul Krugman blame Sarah Palin for Boston bombing	
So far, there has not been any commentary from Paul Krugman on the bombing at the Boston Marathon Monday, and given his incendiary More... 



 
 What is Baylisascaris procyonis?	
Baylisascaris procyonis is a roundworm found in the small intestines of raccoons. They excrete the eggs of this parasite in their feces. More... 



 
 What is schistosomiasis?	
Schistosomiasis, also referred to as Bilharzia and Katayama fever, is an infection with a type of Schistosoma parasite.
The schistosomes More... 



 
 Well-Regulated, what does that mean in the Second Amendment	
For all of those Leftists who are trying to twist and mis-represent the term “well regulated” in the 2nd Amendment to mean More... 



 
 Paul Krugman hates money, especially the Bitcoin	
I used to think that Paul Krugman just misunderstood money, but now I realize that he really hates the stuff. Hates it.
His recent More... 



 
 Paul Krugman’s lust for lying, the desire to buy gold must be racism driven	
As I have written many times before, Paul Krugman no longer is an economist, if he ever was one. Instead, he is a political operative, More... 



 
 Paul Krugman’s Intellectual Honesty on Great Britain, Herbert Hoover and Margaret Thatcher	
Bob Murphy has a post on Free Advice that deals with the intellectually dishonest way that Paul Krugman portrays Herbert Hoover and More... 



 
 What is dengue fever?	
Dengue fever is an infectious disease carried by mosquitoes and caused by any of four related dengue viruses. This disease used to More... 











 





  US NEWS


Dzhokhar Tsarnaev tweeted Jay-Z lyrics ‘stay safe people’ after Boston Marathon bombing

 
After killing 3 and wounding 180, the surviving brother tweets, ‘Ain’t no love in the heart of the city,” a line from rapper Jay-Z. He adds, chillingly, ‘stay safe More...



Car hijacked by Boston bomber had a ‘Coexist’ bumper sticker

 
Countless websites are calling it the ultimate definition of irony as a photo circulating twitter pulled from news coverage of the Boston bomber manhunt reveals the car hijacked More...



Rand Paul questions John Kerry on foreign aid

 
During a Senate Foreign Relations Committee hearing concerning the FY2014 International Affairs Budget, Senator Rand Paul (R-KY) questioned Secretary of State John Kerry on More...








WORLD NEWS

 

China earthquake kills over 150 people, injures over 6,000
Rescuers are hunting for survivors after an earthquake strikes rural China, killing more than 150 people and injuring thousands.
A strong 6.6 magnitude earthquake has hit China’s More...



Chechen President blames America for Boston bombing, ‘they were raised inthe US’ so seek ‘roots of evil in America’
Chechnya’s Russian-backed president has hit out at America for killing one of the suspected Boston Marathon bombers and blamed the US for molding them into terrorists.
President More...






RELIGION

President Obama quotes scripture as encouragement in the wake of the Boston bombing, but cuts short of mention Jesus

 
President Barack Obama joined religious leaders on Thursday for an interfaith service at the Cathedral of the Holy Cross More...



Christian artist Kari Jobe talks new film ‘Not Today,’ fighting human trafficking, calling it an ‘evil, evil situation’

 
Christian singer Kari Jobe is speaking in support of a new film, Not Today, which hopes to raise awareness of the More...













WEIRD NEWS



 
Reuters accidentally publishes ‘prepared obituary’ of George Soros, who is alive and well
          Reuters accidentally published on Thursday a prepared obituary for George Soros, billionaire philanthropist and legendary liberal...
		 




 
Philip John Garcia, California man, arrested naked climbing through the dog door demanding sex from neighbor
          A Perris, California man is behind bars after authorities say he crawled naked through a dog door...
		 




 
Alice Klee, New Jersey hoarder, found dead in her apartment, ‘mummified’ under clothing and debris
          Reported missing two months ago, Alice Klee was indeed found inside of her home on Wednesday,...
		 







HOMETOWN NEWS

Coroner Bill Watson says Kendrick Johnson case ‘handled wrong’ and the ‘body was moved’

 
The Lowndes County coroner Bill Watson told South Georgia and More...



Dorothy Canfield, age 84, plotte..



Body of Shjon Brown, age 9, reco..



Cathy Humphries pleads guilty in..



Missing children, Ralph Knowles ..



Eric Williams identified as man ..



Missing Chicago tourist, Sarath ..







CELEBRITY NEWS


Russell Brand jokes Tom Cruise didn’t even try to recruit him into the scientology cult

 
Russell Brand is jokingly a little upset with Tom Cruise over scientology.
The 37-year-old comedian stopped More...





‘The Dark Side of the Moon’ artist, Storm Thorgerson, dead at 69
                    The man behind such classic album covers as Pink Floyd’s “The Dark Side of the Moon”, “Wish you were here” and..
		 


LA police forced to use tear gas, flash grenade to get woman with knife out of ‘American Pie’ star’s house
                    Los Angeles police on Wednesday evening fired flash bang grenades and tear gas into the home of “American Pie” actor Eddie..
		 

 




OUTBREAK NEWS


Bangladesh reports human H5N1 avian influenza death

 
The Institute of Epidemiology, Disease Control and Research in Dhaka has reported the seventh case of human More...





Avian influenza H7N9 outbreak climbs to 95 cases as experts converge on China
                    Chinese health authorities have announced an additional four human cases of avian influenza A(H7N9), bring the total to 95, according to a..
		 


New Mexico reports first hantavirus case of 2013 in McKinley County woman
                    New Mexico health officials have reported the first case of hantavirus in the state this year. The patient is a  45-year-old..
		 

 








MOVIES

New ‘Thor The Dark World’ poster features Chris Hemsworth as ‘God of Thunder’

 
  

             

                
                
		 
           Marvel Studios begins Phase two next month with Iron Man 3 and fans will get the second film in November as..
		 


‘Ninja Turtles’ reboot retitled as ‘Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles’ as script gets rewritten



Gwyneth Paltrow says ‘Iron Man 3′ made her a supermom, calls Robert Downey Jr a ‘wimp’



‘Avatar’ and ‘Terra Nova’ star Stephen Lang set to star in ‘The Dragon Angel’


 

TELEVISION

Showtime confirms ‘Dexter’ season 8 will be the last, new poster and clip released

 
  

             

            Producers have yet to confirm previously stated remarks that Dexter season 7 was the precursor the final season. Les Moonves stated as..
		 


‘The Vampire Diaries’ season 4 finale set for Prom, Bonnie’s story arc and the first look at the true Silas



‘Breaking Bad’ season 5 will return in August, AMC adds ‘Talking Bad’ and new series ‘Low Winter Sun’



Dreamworks poised to approve ‘Croods’ sequel as worldwide box office nears $400 million







BOLLYWOOD NEWS


 
Did Salman Khan refuse Bombay Talkies because of Shah Rukh Khan?
           The latest buzz in B-Town is that Salman Khan has refused to be a part of “Bombay Talkies,” the anthology tribute..
		 



BUSINESS NEWS


 
Cybersecurity bill passes House and heads to Senate with White House threatening veto, protects companies from lawsuits
           Fighting hackers and cyberattacks will allegedly get easy for companies with the legislation which was voted through the  House on Thursday despite..
		 



HEALTH


 
Merit Bird Company recalls bird food over possible salmonella
				
           Chatsworth, California company, Merit Bird Company, has announced a voluntary recall a variety of bird food products after routine testing performed by Specialty..
		 









 




 


Popular
Comments
Tags






America’s Secret Weapon – The H1B Visa
December 14, 2012, 32 Comments





Police arrest Monserrate Shirley, Mark Leonard and Robert Leonard for Indianapolis home explosion case
December 22, 2012, 27 Comments





Kendrick Johnson, Georgia football player, found dead in gym, rolled up in wrestling mat
January 17, 2013, 27 Comments





Joe Hundley, Idaho man who slapped toddler on airplane, loses his job as hate crime charges still pending
February 20, 2013, 24 Comments





CDC: Sexually transmitted infections increase in 2011
December 14, 2012, 21 Comments





  
Assume Much? says:
You are sure of a lot of things. You used "I am...
 

  
prince says:
Like many Americans, I feel Sarah Palin should be held responsible in...
 

  
Mary says:
Thanks Ed!  It amazes me how many people can't see the...
 

  
Mary says:
Amen!...
 

  
Arlie says:
In Texas it is completely legal to carry a rifle just about...
 



2013 Movies
2014 films
California
casting news
Celebrity News
China
Colorado
dead body
dead body found
Egypt
Election 2012
Florida
found dead
gun control
gun laws
Iran
Israel
man arrested
Mitt Romney
Movie News
Movie trailer
murder case
murder suspect
New York
Obama administration
Pennsylvania
Philippines
police investigation
Presidential election 2012
President Obama
Rand Paul
Ron Paul
second amendment
Second amendment rights
Syria
Tampa
Television news
Texas
TV series
twitter
US News
video
Viral Video
Weird News
World News 




 

 





 


  
 
  





     

Home
About Us
Privacy Policy
Terms and Conditions
Advertise on The Global Dispatch
Write for Us
*
 
   
 



    The Global Dispatch Inc. All Rights Reserved 
         

    
  




