	Quake kills 156, leaves 5,500 injured in China - Hindustan Times
Hindustan Times
                         |  LiveMint  | 
                        LiveHindustan  | 
                        More
                        Hindustan Times Group
Shine
HT Media
HT Syndication
HT Tenders
Hindustan Media Ventures Ltd.
Desimartini
HT Classifieds
Fever 104
HT Campus
Delhi
    - [ Min
        23°C 
    / Max
        37°C 
    ] | city weather
 
 site    
     
Advertisement
Wed,24 Apr 2013
news
NEWS
India
World
Sport
VIEWS
Blogs
Editorial
Columns
Interviews
BUSINESS
Markets
Economy
Corporate News
Interviews
htt20
ind-aus
ind-eng
ind-pak
cl t20
wc t20
Asia Cup'12
IPL5
World Cup'11
News
Scorecard
Cricket
MOTOR SPORTS
Entertainment
Celebs
Bollywood
Hollywood
Reviews
Tabloid
Music
Television
Fashion
Brunch
DesiMartini
tech
personal tech
social media
business computing
industry trends
reviews
events
Travel
travel stories
multimedia
travel diary
celeb column
destination
BOOKS
top stories
authors
reviews
multimedia
blogs
excerpts
book lovers
live chat
PHOTOS
VIDEOS
Audio
PodCast
BLOGS
ePAPER
Delhi
Mumbai
Kolkata
Chandigarh
Indore
Bhopal
Lucknow
Jaipur
Mint
Hindustan
ESTATES
Deals
JOBS
Jobs in India
Job Search
Career Advice
Industry Research
Resume Services
Colleges in India
MATRIMONIAL
HOTELS
 India | World | Sport 
China
Quake kills 156, leaves 5,500 injured in China
Sutirtho Patranobis, Hindustan TimesBeijing, April 20, 2013
  Email to AuthorFirst Published: 13:10 IST(20/4/2013)Last Updated: 01:53 IST(21/4/2013)
Share more.
  comments 
  
                            Tweet
Email 
print
A rescuer (C) carries a child to safety after she was pulled out of her collapsed home after an earthquake hit Ya'an City in Lushan county, southwest China's Sichuan province (AFP PHOTO)
A massive earthquake hit Sichuan in southwestern China today morning, killing at least 157 people and injuring more than 5500 in a large mostly rural expanse.
The 7.0 magnitude quake caused widespread damage, flattening buildings, disrupting communication and water lines and
 triggered panic among residents who ran out of their houses as several aftershocks continued to jolt affected areas.
By late afternoon, rescue operations were on in full swing with at least 5000 personnel from army and government departments dispatched to take care of the survivors.
The toll was expected to rise as many people were feared trapped under the debris of fallen buildings; nearly 50 survivors were pulled out till evening.
More than 70, 000 people had died in the province in an earthquake in 2008.
The worst hit area of Saturday’s quake was the Lushan county of Sichuan province where buildings crumbled into stacks of debris as tremors continued for nearly 20 seconds.
Thousands were left without homes and rescue workers had put up makeshift shelters to house survivors. Several medical teams were working around the clock to treat the injured.
State media reported that the earthquake hit Lushan county of Ya'an City in the province at 8:02am Saturday
Initial reports said at least 1000 people were injured but by early evening, the toll had risen sharply to over 3000.
Landslides triggered by the quake blocked traffic and hampered rescue work as fire fighting s and emergency units attempted to reach the affected areas.
Residents help carry injured people to the hospital after an earthquake hit Ya'an City in Lushan County, southwest China's Sichuan province. (AFP PHOTO)
At least five drones were dispatched to capture images of quake-hit areas, the National Administration of Surveying, Mapping and Geo-information said.
State media reported that the drone images will cover the hardest-hit Baoxing, Taiping and Longmen townships.
The administration has already obtained satellite images of pre-disaster Lushan county, of Ya'an City in Sichuan Province, through the Ziyuan III satellite.
Helicopters from army installations were also pressed into service to aid rescue work.
Tragedy also struck during rescue efforts after a an army truck carrying 17 soldiers on way to the quake scene fell into a river while negotiating a damaged road; at least one soldier lost his life.
Rescue efforts were also hampered by aftershocks.
Residents rest outside damaged houses in Longmen township, an area very close to the epicenter of a shallow earthquake at magnitude 7.0 that hit the city of Ya'an, southwest China's Sichuan province. (CHINA OUT AFP PHOTO)
According to state-run Xinhua news agency, a 5.3-magnitude aftershock jolted the border areas between the counties of Lushan and Tianquan at about 11:34am, the strongest aftershock after the initial quake, according to the provincial seismological bureau.
“About 400 armed police have arrived in Lushan county to assist with rescue efforts. More than 1,400 rescuers from the provincial fire-fighting department are rushing to the site.
The hardest-hit areas are in the townships of Longmen and Qingren, said Jin Zelin, an official with the provincial armed police corps,” the Xinhua report said.
About 200 technicians from China Mobile Limited's Sichuan branch have been dispatched to disaster-hit areas to repair the telecommunications network.
Chinese Premier Li Keqiang reached Qionglai Airport in southwest China's Sichuan Province in the afternoon. He convened emergency meetings during his flight to direct quake-relief work.
A villager checks the condition of a damaged house in Banjarnegara, Central Java, on April 20, 2013, after an earthquake measuring 4.8 on the Richter scale caused by volcanic activity in the Dieng plateau. (AFP PHOTO)
"The current most urgent issue is grasping the first 24 hours after the quake's occurrence, the golden time for saving lives, to take scientific rescue measures and save peoples' lives," Li said.
more from this section
China denies incursion for third consecutive dayClashes erupt in China's restive Xinjiang, 21 deadNew China-Japan tension over disputed island
more»
Share more.
  comments 
  
                            Tweet
Email 
print
comment
Note: By posting your comments here you agree to the 
terms and conditions of www.hindustantimes.com
Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
blog comments powered by Disqus
 
Advertisement
stories
photos
videos
most viewed
 Delhi minor raped even after she lost consciousnessRapes happen all over India: Shinde tells HouseSherlyn Chopra reveals first poster of Kamasutra 3DCheck out: Rajinikanth's double role in KochadaiyaanShah Rukh Khan not happy with music of Chennai Express
more »
 Prez confers Padma awardsHappy Birthday: BR ChopraPriyanka Chopra looks stunning at event launchNeil Nitin Mukesh, Puja Gupta get cosy for photoshootBubbly Parineeti Chopra
more »
 I am lonely and I want love: Mallika SherawatChild rape: Wife of accused says husband innocentBeing an actress useless, thought Parineeti ChopraDelhi 5-year old was gang-raped: ReportsChinese incursion:  'Indian taking every step to protect interests'
more »
Follow @httweets
Advertisement
         
Top Stories
Mamata sets up Rs. 500 cr fund for duped Saradha investorsDelhi rape: cop who offered bribe identified by fatherAfter incursion, China's helicopters violate Indian airspaceWomen invite harassment: MP Cong leaderTremors in Delhi as quake strikes Afghanistan
Advertisement
News|Views| Business | Cricket | Motor Sports | Entertainment | Tech | Travel | Books | Photos | Video | Blogs | Events | autos | ePaper | Apps| htsynd| Movies| Jobs in india |#top
HT Delhi/NCR Subscription
About us|Contact us|Work with us|Privacy Policy|Disclaimer|Sitemap|Print ad rates
    Copyright © 2013 HT Media Limited. All Rights Reserved
    
   
 
