
					John L. Sullivan Chevrolet - Roseville, CA - Sacramento Chevrolet Dealership
				


































“No one can make you a deal like we can, and that's a promise!”







 









Sales: (877) 538-1450
Service: (877) 229-5584












Home




Vehicles




New Vehicle Search




New Vehicle Specials




Pre-Owned Search 




Instant Quote




Custom Search 




Value Your Trade-In




What Is GM Certified?




KBB




OnStar




Owner's Manuals




Fleet & Commercial




Incentives




John L Sullivan Chevy Green






Finance




Apply Online




Estimator




Buy vs. Lease




Estimate Credit Score






Service & Parts




Service Department




Appointment




Service Menu




Parts Request




OnStar




Tire Finder




Accessories






JLS Info




Welcome




Testimonials




Customer Reviews




Hours & Map




Internet Sales




Employment






Contact Us




Contact Us




Hours & Map






Specials




New Vehicle Specials




New Lease Specials




Pre-Owned Specials




GM Incentives


























Search Inventory
Request Info
Get a Quote


































































































































Search Inventory
Request Info
Get a Quote













View Inventory
Contact Us
Get a Quote













View Inventory
Contact Us
Get a Quote


































































JLS Chevy E-Manuals




Click To View




























John L. Sullivan Chevrolet of Roseville | Serving Folsom & Sacramento Chevy Shoppers
Customers from Sacramento, Folsom and beyond have been choosing John L. Sullivan as their Chevrolet dealer of choice for years. Conveniently located off I-80 in the Roseville Auto Mall, our showroom and body shop is the leading Chevrolet destination in the area. We welcome our Folsom and Sacramento Chevrolet customers to visit our directions page for specific driving directions and hours of operation.
Your Sacramento Chevrolet Dealer in Roseville
Since the early 1960’s, John has been committed to selling only the highest quality vehicles and providing the best in parts and service to his customers. Today at John L. Sullivan Chevrolet in Roseville, that philosophy has remained true and has made us the #1 volume dealer in Northern California. From sales to service, we’re dedicated to making our customers’ auto experience comfortable, trustworthy, affordable, and reliable while continuing to improve our regional Sacramento Chevrolet dealership so that it remains within the highest standards that our customers expect. Browse our site, our Roseville Chevrolet inventory, research financing options and check our service specials. Feel free to contact us with any questions you might have.
Roseville Used Cars near Sacramento and Folsom
With close to 600 used and certified pre-owned vehicles to choose from, John L. Sullivan in Roseville is your one-stop shop for the Sacramento area. Besides our amazing selection and low prices, we also offer a 5 year, 100,000 mile limited warranty on our used vehicles. View our current used and certified Roseville used car inventory and find the perfect car, truck or SUV that’s right for you near Folsom at the #1 volume dealer in Northern California.
Visit John L. Sullivan Chevrolet in Roseville for Service
At John L. Sullivan, our friendly, certified technicians are standing by to meet all your major repair and maintenance needs between Sacramento and Folsom. Schedule a service appointment for your Roseville Chevrolet and let us get you back on the road quickly in top driving condition. You can also search genuine GM parts, find tires and accessories and view specials all at the click of a button. It would be our pleasure to serve you at the preferred Sacramento Chevrolet dealership. 











































1/









































Sales:(877) 538-1450
Service:(877) 229-5584






















    350 Automall Drive, Roseville, CA 95661
Email Internet Sales







Prices plus government fees and taxes, any finance charges, any dealer document processing charge, any electronic filing charge, and any emissions testing charge. Neither Cobalt/ADP nor John L Sullivan Chevrolet make any representations, expressed or implied, to any actual or prospective purchaser or owner of this vehicle as to the existence, ownership, accuracy, description or condition of this vehicle's listed equipment, accessories, price or any warranties. Any and all differences must be addressed prior to the sale of this vehicle.







 



site map




privacy policy




AdChoices




terms of use










































