The Irony of the Virginia Earthquake
 | God Discussion



September 5, 2011


Log In
RSS
Twitter
YouTube
God Discussion on Blog Talk Radio
 

God DiscussionThe Place for Seekers Who Don't Go to Church | news, opinions & reviewsHome
News

Third Party Feeds
Press Releases


Understanding Faith

Christianity
Mysticism and Indigenous, Ethnic Religious Customs
Judaism
New Age and Spirituality
Cults and Extremism, Toxic Religion
TBA


Freethought

Atheism, Agnosticism, Non-Theism
Humanism and Psychology
Theistic Freethought: New Thought, Deism, Universalism
The Bible Slam

Book 01 – Genesis
Book 02 – Exodus
Book 03 – Leviticus
Book 04 – Numbers
Book 05 – Deuteronomy




Perspectives and Symbolism

Interesting Stuff

Articles From Around the Web




Culture Wars

Church and State
Education
Extremism
LGBT
Women's Issues


Books and Entertainment

Reviews
Books, eBooks and Movies (with Amazon ratings)
Merchandise and Gifts
Stories and Poems


About

About This Site
Policies and Disclaimers


Contact
Contributors

Section Editors
Bloggers


Submissions

Articles and Opinion Submissions

How To Submit, Add YouTube Videos, and more tips


Press Releases


The God Discussion Show
Polls
Forum
End Times Clocks
 

You are here: Home / Bloggers and Columnists / The Irony of the Virginia Earthquake 
The Irony of the Virginia Earthquake
August 24, 2011  By Mriana 2 Comments  



The Common Wealth of Virginia shook August 23, 2011.  It was a rare occurrence for the area, but ironically Republican Congressman Eric Cantor wanted to slash the budget for United States Geological Service (USGS) long before the earthquake happened.  The epicenter was in Mineral, Virginia, not too far from the capitol Richmond, but people also felt this quake in Washington D.C.
Right behind the earthquake is hurricane Irene and she is heading towards Virginia.  Do you still want to defend cutting funds to such agencies, Cantor?  Mind you, Cantor, other Republicans, and Religious Reich people, this not only does not have a thing to with a god, but your lives are on the line too.  None of these things have anything to do with any punishing deity.  Hurricanes and earthquakes have nothing to do with same sex couples marrying nor are they punishments from any deity.  They are just part of nature and modern technology is the answer to our survival, especially during this time of Climate Change.  Unless we evolve and adapt to the changing conditions, we will go the way of the dinosaurs, which had nothing to do with any god.
However, if I did not know better, I would say the USGS has it out for Congressman Cantor, and his cronies, for trying to cut their funding.  He also defended cuts for the National Weather service and the NOAA, of which Jonathan Turley says,
It is well known that you don’t mess with seismologists who are known throughout the world as the bad boys of the geek world. Indeed, I recall that after Canter’s cuts, the lead USGS seismologist walked up and gave him the il colpo di grazia or the kiss of death. Being part Italian, I shuddered at the time but Cantor’s aides just assumed it was a pharmaceutical lobbyist.
It probably was "the kiss of death", given that there are fewer funds to save lives, but I do not mean that in a superstitious manner.
Below, the video related to Japan's earthquake and tsunami, but just before the 98 second mark, the reporter talks about Cantor defending cuts to our weather alert systems, calling such life-saving technology, "Big Government".

Visit msnbc.com for breaking news, world news, and news about the economy
I have heard similar talk in this area. Republicans want to cut programs that save lives, which makes no sense at all, and yet we are faced with severe weather, especially during this time of Climate Change.  Science cuts started with NASA, also exploring Climate Change, which in the long run could save lives also.  Obviously our government does not read any of the reports from scientists who post on their website, much less NASA's website.
However, Japan's educational system is far better than the U.S. educational system and not only that, their early weather detection system is better than anything the U.S. possesses.  Without it, the death toll from the earthquake and the tsunami put together would be far greater than it was.  As for the radiation leaks of their nuclear plants, the Japanese did the best they could and even that had the potential of being far worse, without any warnings.
Japan has the best tsunami warning system in the world. Some of their buildings are literally built on massive springs so that they can sway instead of fall down. and experts say that the strict building codes and early warnings of the earthquake and tsunami saved countless lives. Well, you know what strict building codes and warning systems are in America?
I would laugh, but our early warning systems are worse than a joke, in comparison to Japan's technology.  Their educational system, weather warning system, and technology is far superior than ours.
Government officials predict the closure of as many as 12 NOAA offices – which provide warning services for 30 million Americans. The national weather service budget would be cut by $126 million over the next six months with furloughs at 22 forecast offices. -and shorter work weeks for the storm prediction center and the national hurricane center shall be expected.
I said it before and I will say it again, Republicans and the Religious Reich talk about the Democrats creating death camps and coffins for U.S. citizens, but let me tell you something, there stands the actual death camps.  Sadly, if the Republicans and the Religious Reich get their way, your very own city, which you live, could be your death camp.
This is not conspiracy talking.  It is not fear-mongering, but rather scientific fact and the use of modern technology, based on knowledge and reason.  These things help save lives, not cause deaths.
Any local LEPC or emergency coordinator will tell you that the inability for warnings to be disseminated to the public, whether due to staffing inadequacies, radar maintenance problems, or weather radio transmitter difficulties would be disastrous.
I wonder if Cantor and others will listen after Irene passes through or if they will even care?  If cuts continue in the areas of survival and safety, which are basic needs, death and destruction will soon follow, because what we need for basic human survival and to save lives will not be there.  There are your death coffins, Palin.
It is basic safety for American citizens that is in jeopardy. We'd be less safe if these cuts go through — talking aviation, utilities, agriculture. It is amazing how far these republicans will really go.
What was the name of the movie in which the little girl said, "You're all going to die down here"?  We will if the Republicans and Religious Reich get their life-threatening budget cuts and possibly the demise of the human race.  I wonder if the USGS could throw in a huge tidal wave and tornado, along with some local flooding of that area, if Cantor et al does not recant?  Then again, that seems like overkill, but sadly, it might be what it takes to get the Republicans and Religious Reich to see the light.
 


Auto-Generated Related Posts (Use the Search for Better Results)May 25, 2011 -- Forecasters tell Missouri to Brace up for more Violent StormsJanuary 31, 2011 -- BREAKING NEWS: Major blizzard headed for Chicago; city prepares for the worstSeptember 22, 2009 -- Hundreds Attend Arkansas Church Online Every WeekAugust 27, 2011 -- Watch Lady Liberty Greet the Storm — Internet offers live-tracking and web cams of Hurricane IreneAugust 25, 2011 -- Weather forecast puts East Coast in Hurricane Irene’s sightsAugust 24, 2011 -- Historic Episcopal Cathedral Faces Uninsured Earthquake DamageAugust 24, 2011 -- DeSoto County, MS schools praised for halting prayers in schoolAugust 21, 2011 -- Addiction: Defined As a Brain Disorder (Part III)August 10, 2011 -- Mandatory sex education implemented in NYC schools

Filed Under: Bloggers and Columnists, Mriana Brinson, Opinion Tagged With: common wealth of virginia, Congressman Eric Cantor, National Weather Service, service, system, Technology, united states geological service, Weather 


Comments 


 kashish says: 

August 27, 2011 at 2:55 am


great post , their education system is better , but there are some loopholes .
Like or Dislike:  0  0 

Reply 



 Mriana says: 

August 28, 2011 at 4:22 pm


Yes, and there teen suicide rate is higher too, from what I understand.
Like or Dislike:  0  0 

Reply 










Speak Your Mind Cancel reply

Name *
Email *
Website








CAPTCHA Code
 *
  




If you're commenting for the very first time, you comment is held in moderation.  After the first approval, your comments appear immediately, so long as they comply with our terms.

IMPORTANT NOTE: If you have a lengthy comment, copy it before entering the CAPTCHA code and hitting reply.  Some people say that their comments disappear if they enter the wrong captcha code and have to go back.  

Since this is a do follow blog, USE A NAME, NOT KEYWORDS (i.e., call yourself Kevin instead of "Buy carports here.")  Comments are monitored and will be deleted without review if posted using a key phrase instead of a name.  By submitting a comment here you grant this site a perpetual license to reproduce your words and name/web site in attribution.  We reserve the right to delete your comment pursuant to the site's terms, conditions and policies. 

GOD DISCUSSION RESERVES THE RIGHT TO DELETE OR EDIT COMMENTS FOR ANY REASON, WITHOUT NOTICE, including without limitation grammar errors, "trolling" and spamming. 




 Have trouble reading your computer screen?  Click the icons above to increase or decrease font size.  We have removed our audio feed due to the amount of time it took to load, and apologize for any inconvenience.  





 













Administrative Announcements and Open Polls
 This week's poll:  Should presidential candidates be asked about their faith?
The God Discussion Show Schedule




 Recently posted …

Arizona GOP Auctioned Gun Similar to the One Used to Shoot Giffords
In 11,000 word response, Vatican claims that it did not hinder Ireland's sexual abuse investigations
This week's poll:  Should presidential candidates be asked about their faith?
Rick Perry campaign receives boost in financial contributions
70-year-old church secretary sentenced for embezzling $1.5 million from Baptist church
North and South Korean Buddhist Monks Unite to Celebrate Ancient Engraving
Jackson County Christians recite the Lord's Prayer before high school football game
Are We Living in The Matrix?  Simulated Reality and Multiverse Theory  (Part 2)
Nigerian "megapastors" fly the world in private jets while 60% of their flock live below the WHO poverty line





 





Get Our Content by Email
Subscribe to God Discussion










Popular This Week
Don't ask, don't tell extends to questioning Republican candidates' faiths; Bill Keller experiences conservative media backlash over religion questions posed to Republican candidates
Herman Cain desperate for political come-back, plays the pro-Israel card
Russell Saunders and other atheists call for an atheist presidential nominee to right unbalanced political representation in America
Scientologists' angry response to New Yorker article–it's all out war now
Russian authorities continue harassment of Jehovah's Witnesses
Conservative readers take New York Times to task over "bias against religion"
Michele Bachmann claims to be Jewish in the style of Christian Zionism
Justin Bieber gives thanks to Christ for VMA win
Pastor Wants a Christian National Registry of Atheists




Tag Cloud
amendment
Atheist
Atheists
author
Bible
Body
book
Catholic
CHAPTER
Child
Christianity
church
death
edition
Faith
God
Heart
History
home
information
Islam
Law
life
Love
message
Muslim
News
person
Prayer
President
Press
Religion
school
series
Sex
site
spiritual
Stars
State
story
Text
time
Truth
Woman
Work





Comments
admin on Arizona GOP Auctioned Gun Similar to the One Used to Shoot Giffordsadmin on Jackson County Christians recite the Lord's Prayer before high school football gameMriana on Jackson County Christians recite the Lord's Prayer before high school football gameAlex on North and South Korean Buddhist Monks Unite to Celebrate Ancient Engravingadmin on UFO sightings on the rise: UFO in China holds up flights for more than half an houradmin on Leo Behe, son of Micheal BeheMriana on Changing SocietyKyouri on Herman Cain desperate for political come-back, plays the pro-Israel card
Social Networking





Main Feed | Comments Feed













 



Fair Use and Decayed Links
FAIR USE NOTICE. This site might contain some copyrighted material, the use of which has not always been specifically authorized by the copyright owner. We make such material available in an effort to advance awareness and understanding of issues relating to religion, church and state, politics and spirituality. We believe this constitutes a 'fair use' of any such copyrighted material as provided for in section 107 of the US Copyright Law. In accordance with Title 17 U.S.C. Section 107, the material on this site is distributed without profit to those who have expressed a prior interest in receiving the included information for research and educational purposes. For more information please visit: http://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/17/107.shtml (new window). If you wish to use copyrighted material from this site for purposes of your own that go beyond 'fair use', you must obtain permission directly from the copyright owner.
LINK DECAY.  Not all the sites linked to use permanent URLs. If the archives take you to a dead link, you can search the link's site for the article that had been published.  It is possible that the web page was removed; however, the publication might have a print copy available.  Additionally, some news videos that the site provides through subscription or YouTube may have decayed or were removed by their owner.




Latest Seekers
Feedjit Live Blog Stats




Listen to the Show Archives

 Listen to internet radio with God Discussion on Blog Talk Radio


Archives

September 2011 (45)
August 2011 (283)
July 2011 (254)
June 2011 (220)
May 2011 (273)
April 2011 (346)
March 2011 (314)
February 2011 (238)
January 2011 (237)
December 2010 (325)
November 2010 (288)
October 2010 (304)
September 2010 (266)
August 2010 (178)
July 2010 (315)
June 2010 (394)
May 2010 (375)
April 2010 (325)
March 2010 (380)
February 2010 (347)
January 2010 (344)
December 2009 (357)
November 2009 (342)
October 2009 (365)
September 2009 (327)
August 2009 (350)
July 2009 (346)
June 2009 (299)
May 2009 (305)
April 2009 (268)
March 2009 (246)
February 2009 (112)





Top of PageCopyright © 2011 · News Theme on Genesis Framework · WordPress · Log in














Copy / Paste
Site Search
Wikipedia
Google
Facts
Amazon
eBay
Outlook
Gmail
Y! Mail
Twitter

Search & Share



Web Toolbar by Wibiya





