Articles »72 Hour Plan Articles» Blog Archive » Yes Virginia! There was an Earthquake - 72 Hour Plan







 







Main Menu

Home

Articles
Family Prepared Project
Forum

 Downloadable Resources
Hover over the links below for a brief description of the resource.
Communication Plan
Event Analysis Worksheet
72 Hour Kit Inventory
  






 






72 Hour Plan Articles


					   
				

					~Please bear with us while we migrate our articles to this new format.				




Eight Pillars
72 Hour Plan Basics
Quick Tip
Gear Review
Critical Events






Blogs Home










« National Preparedness Month is Coming
NPM1 – How Firm is Your Foundation »




Yes Virginia! There was an Earthquake 




By now I am sure you have heard the news, and probably seen the reports on television.  The 5.8 magnitude quake, with an epicenter near Mineral, VA, occurred on Tuesday, 23 August at 1:51 PM. (USGS details page)
I was surprised, and that seems to be the general feeling for everyone I have talked to.   I looked out the window of my office building while I was standing in my door jam, and I expected to see some evidence of an explosion on the D.C. skyline.  Thankfully I did not.
Virginia has not had a significant earthquake is nearly a century, and most locals did not understand what was happening until it was over.  The good news, so far, there have been no significant injuries reported.
Have you planned for an earthquake?  Most folks in Virgina, and the East Coast for that matter,  have not.   However, every state in the USA, and her territories, are susceptible to earthquakes.  They are tricky, they often occur without warning, so what is a good way to get ready for such an event?  What was learned yesterday when Virgina experienced an earthquake?
The first thing I learned – Cell phones are not meant to have the entire population using them at one time.  I could not access the cellular network for nearly 30 minutes following the earthquake.   So what did work? how did I know my family was safe?  I used a land line.  A recent report shows nearly half of Americans no longer have a land line phone, they rely on their cell phone as a primary means of communication.  Should you reconsider?  Some people still have phones at home, but they are using VoIP technologies for that phone service.  I do not have any reports of VoIP being clogged or unusable following this quake, but it may be a concern.   I also heard a report by a local contractor that his NexTel Push to Talk service was not interrupted.  This feature on some mobile phones uses half duplex radio signals which do not require “dial to connect” operation.  Another possible option if you are concerned about contacting family during an event when the cell system will be overloaded.
If I would not have been able to contact my family over the land line, my next action would have been to attempt a call to our out of state contact.  Knowing who to call when local networks are down is an important part of your family communication plan.  My wife and I called our out of state contact anyway, after we finished talking, to let them know we are okay.
What else did I learn? – Most folks on the east coast don’t know what to do during an earthquake.   Thousands of people began streaming out of office buildings during the quake.  Here is a quick primer on “what to do” for an earthquake:
Be aware that some earthquakes are actually foreshocks and a larger earthquake might occur. Minimize your movements so you can get to a nearby safe place and if you are indoors, stay there until the shaking has stopped and you are sure exiting is safe.
If indoors

DROP to the ground; take COVER by getting under a sturdy table or other piece of furniture; and stay there until the shaking stops. If there isn’t a table or desk near you, cover your face and head with your arms and crouch in an inside corner of the building.
Stay away from glass, windows, outside doors and walls, and anything that could fall, such as lighting fixtures or furniture.
Use a doorway for shelter only if it is in close proximity to you and if you know it is a strongly supported, load bearing doorway.
Stay inside until the shaking stops and it is safe to go outside. Research has shown that most injuries occur when people inside buildings attempt to move to a different location inside the building or try to leave.
Be aware that the electricity may go out or the sprinkler systems or fire alarms may turn on.
DO NOT use elevators.

If outdoors

Stay there.
Move away from buildings, streetlights, and utility wires.
Once in the open, stay there until the shaking stops. The greatest danger exists directly outside buildings, at exits and alongside exterior walls.  Most earthquake-related casualties result from collapsing walls, flying glass, and falling objects.

If in a moving vehicle

Stop as quickly as safety permits and stay in the vehicle. Avoid stopping near or under buildings, trees, overpasses, and utility wires.
Proceed cautiously once the earthquake has stopped. Avoid roads, bridges, or ramps that might have been damaged by the earthquake.

If trapped under debris

Do not light a match.
Do not move about or kick up dust.
Cover your mouth with a handkerchief or clothing.
Tap on a pipe or wall so rescuers can locate you. Use a whistle if one is available. Shout only as a last resort. Shouting can cause you to inhale dangerous amounts of dust, and uses more energy than you need to use.

My family also performed a “preparedness review” during dinner last night.  We talked about our communication plan, emergency power, our ‘get home’ plan, water, food, and our alternate shelter options.
Planning is a key component of preparedness, but we must also take opportunities such as this to discuss our plans and look for ways to improve our plans.
What did you learn during this unexpected event?  what worked well for you? What did you discover needs improvement?  Share your thoughts below.

Follow 72HourPlan on Twitter
Join 72HourPlan on Facebook
 


						2011/08/24 Wednesday - 72hourplan (Views :152) | Posted in 72 Hour Plan Basics, Earthquake, Mental Prep, Natural, Shelter Prep | No Comments » 

No Trackback/Pingback

						Pinging is currently not allowed.						





Leave a Reply

Click here to cancel reply.




Name (required)

Mail (will not be published) (required)

Website

















 CAPTCHA Code
 *


 





« National Preparedness Month is Coming
NPM1 – How Firm is Your Foundation »









Search
Search for:




72 Hour Plan History 
September 2011 (5)
August 2011 (2)
May 2011 (2)
April 2011 (3)
March 2011 (1)
January 2011 (3)
September 2010 (4)
July 2009 (2)
May 2009 (1)

 

radiation
Maintenance
ICE
LED
money
radio
Cars
72 Hour Kit
gear reveiw
NCBR
infrastructure
flashlight
Bug out Bag
communication
Evacuation
nuclear
finance
income
dynamo
filter 
Pillars of Preparedness 



















 






Read more by category: 



















Read more by tags:72 Hour Kit
Beliefs
Bug out Bag
Cars
communication
dynamo
earthquake
Evacuation
filter
finance
flashlight
Food Storage
gear reveiw
ICE
income
infrastructure
LED
Maintenance
money
National Preparedness Month
NCBR
no power
nuclear
off grid
power out
quake
radiation
radio
values







Entries (RSS) and Comments (RSS).	
XPressME Ver.2.36 (included WordPress 3.2.1) (0.590 sec.)






 
 










All information on this website is copyright protected and owned by 72 Hour Plan.  Material reproduced from other sites has been done with proper permission from the original author.  
Redistribution of material on this website is allowed when proper reference is made to the original via footnote or web-link.   © 2001-2011.




