5.8-magnitude quake shakes central Virginia, East Coast | Richmond Times-Dispatch







TimesDispatch.com:
            Welcome Guest
            |

|
Register

|
Contact Us


Richmond Times-Dispatch:
Place a Classified
|
Subscribe
|
Manage Subscription
|
Advertise With Us












NewsColumnists & Blogs Crime Local News Virginia News Virginia Politics Education Traffic & Transportation National & World News Data Center BusinessColumnists & Blogs Metro Business Moneywise Economy OpinionEditorials Letters Commentary Op Ed SportsColumnists & Blogs HSXtra College Sports Flying Squirrels Pro Sports Auto Racing Community Sports Entertainment/LifeColumnists & Blogs Contests & Promotions Food & Dining Music, Movies & TV Arts & Literature Home & Garden Health Events Calendar Submit an event Weddings & Celebrations Faith & Values Travel Games and Puzzles WeatherHurricane Center ObituariesNews Obituaries VideoNews Sports Entertainment/Life Business Your Video Submit Video ServicesAdvertise With Us Archives Buy Photos Contact Us Email Alerts & Newsletters Manage Subscription Mobile Alerts Press Pass RSS Subscriber Services TD-Digital User Submitted Photos Carsfind a car virtual marketplace Sell Your Car Top Autos Shopping/DealsBusiness Directory Buy Photos Deals & Coupons Times-Dispatch Shop virtual marketplace Grocery Coupons Richmond Daily Deal Real Estateapts & Rentals homes for sale commercial property farms & land virtual marketplace mortgage center top homes top rentals Top open houses Sell Your Home Jobsfind a job Top Jobs Employers Classifiedshomes cars Merchandise pets Place An Ad Top Stuff Legal 







You forgot to enter your search term.




Richmond.com
|
Mechanicsville Local
|
Midlothian Exchange
|
Powhatan Today
|
Goochland Gazette
|
PolitiFact Virginia 













|
  











NewsNews









RSS

 Text Size
			
Print
 Share This


Home /
			    
				    news /
			    
				    national /
			    
		    



5.8-magnitude quake shakes central Virginia, East Coast




Video
Photos












Earthquake at Louisa High School (Added: August 23, 2011)
Deborah Pettit, Louisa County School Superintendant, tells about the eathquake damage at Louisa High School. (more)




0 Ratings
						|
						1903 Video Views


Post a Comment or Rate this Video


» View More Videos


 




Next Image >
< Previous Image
















Debris covers the floor of the Miller's Mart food store in Mineral.
Credit: THE ASSOCIATED PRESS




Readings from a seismograph at Washington and Lee  University, about 85 miles southwest of the earthquake’s  epicenter in Mineral.




Employees of the Virginia Department of Transportation at 1221 E. Broad  St. in Richmond, Va, sit outside their building Tuesday, August 23,  2011, after an  earthquake caused evacuation of  many structures in the city. The center of the quake, reportedly was  centered in Mineral, VA, to the northwest of Richmond.




Members of the public and staff stand outside the Virginia State Capitol  in Richmond, VA,  Tuesday, August 23, 2011, after an earthquake caused  evacuation of many structures in the city. The center of the quake,  reportedly was centered in Mineral, VA, to the northwest of Richmond
.
Credit: Bob Brown -- Richmond Times-Dispatch




Bricks that were shaken from a  building at 27th & Broad St. in  Richmond, VA, Tuesday, August 23, 2011, after an earthquake caused  evacuation of many structures in the city. The center of the quake,  reportedly was centered in Mineral, VA, to the northwest of R
ichmond.
Credit: Bob Brown -- Richmond Times-Dispatch




1













Related




COVERAGE: Virginia earthquake


USGS maps shows epiccenter in VA 


VIDEO - White House earthquake footage


AP INTERACTIVE: Eastcoast Earthquake


Senior high-rise complex temporarily evacuated


UPDATE: North Anna no longer relying on backup generators


Calls after quake strain phone lines


Richmond quake memorable, but not that big


Quake reverberates in sidewalk conversations


Quake stirred terror fear as Sept. 11 approaches


Seismic activity causes damage in Colorado


Washington Monument top cracked by earthquake








Earthquake at Louisa High School

Deborah Pettit, Louisa County School Superintendant, tells about the eathquake damage at Louisa High School.
» More



Quake in Maidens

Thomas Ford describes the earthquake in Maidens.
» More



Mineral Earthquake Damage

DMV, other businesses in Mineral, Louisa County sustained damage.  Surveillance video at convenience store shows moment earthquake hit.
» More



Louisa High School Earthquake Damage

Large and small cracks line the outside walls of Louisa High School, while students who were inside say they watched TVs fall
» More



PHOTO GALLERY: Virginia Earthquake

Photos from around Virginia and Richmond, Virginia of the 5.9 magnitude earthquake that struck August 23, 2011.
» More








Do you have any damage to your property from the earthquake?



Yes
No



                        Getting poll results. Please wait...
                    



The voting period on this poll has ended.

» Read More

Note: This poll is not scientific and reflects the opinions of only those Internet users who have chosen to participate. The results cannot be assumed to represent public opinion.









                
                    By: STAFF AND WIRE REPORTS
                    
                    
Published: August 23, 2011
Updated: August 24, 2011 - 12:02 AM


» 
                	 Comments
|
Post a Comment


One of the most powerful earthquakes in Virginia history rippled from its epicenter in Louisa County throughout the eastern United States but injured few people and caused little major structural damage.
The 15-second tremor measured 5.8 on the Richter scale Tuesday at 1:51 p.m., prompting buildings to empty, cellphone service to go silent and two nuclear reactors near the center of the quake to shut down without damage.
Six students and at least one staff member at Louisa County High School were injured in the quake, but only one was hospitalized.
"The very good news is that the damage and the injuries that have been reported are very, very minor," Gov. Bob McDonnell said in a news conference Tuesday afternoon.
In downtown Richmond, three elderly residents of Fay Towers, a high-rise apartment building were hospitalized for medical conditions and a dozen more examined at the scene after they were evacuated, but no one was injured. The 200 residents were allowed to return to their apartments last night.
A local emergency was declared in Louisa, where the quake began almost 5 miles from the town of Mineral, and where property damage was most pronounced.
"That was quite a jolt," said Nancy Loveless, who lives in Goochland County near the Louisa line and lost power briefly.
A 4.2-magnitude aftershock quake centered in Mineral rumbled through central Virginia at 8:04 p.m., one of three aftershocks Tuesday evening. Quakes measuring 2.8 and 2.2 hit at 6:46 p.m. and 7:20 p.m., respectively.
"Aftershocks could continue for days. They are to be expected," said Chester "Skip" Watts, a Radford University engineering geologist. "The first earthquake loosened things up but didn't quite relieve all of the (underground) stress."
The earthquake disrupted life Tuesday afternoon along the East Coast, causing the federal government to send workers home, members of the White House staff to huddle in a driveway, and the Washington Nationals baseball team to delay the start of a game scheduled Tuesday night.
McDonnell was in his office in the Patrick Henry Building in Capitol Square talking with his son at the University of Virginia when he felt the building begin to shake.
"I asked my son to hang on, and he said, 'Dad, I feel it here, too.' And that's when I knew it was something more than just a local event or something going on with our building," the governor said.
Maryland officials closed the U.S. 301 Harry W. Nice Bridge across the Potomac River for about two hours to inspect it. It was reopened at 4 p.m. The Virginia Department of Transportation was inspecting bridges throughout the Richmond, Fredericksburg and Culpeper regions.
Transportation officials found no damage in the four highway tunnels in the Hampton Roads area or two mountain tunnels on Interstate 77 in Southwest Virginia.
They said the biggest problem they face is manmade. The simultaneous closure of federal offices led to enormous road and rail congestion in Northern Virginia.
Though Richmond International Airport was able to operate normally after the earthquake, the FAA control tower was evacuated as a precaution for less than 10 minutes Tuesday, according to airport spokesman Troy Bell.
Some flights to RIC from northeastern U.S. locations were late Tuesday because of earthquake-related ground delays at their departure airports, Bell said.
The quake occurred as Virginians voted in 16 legislative primaries across the state. The governor said it did not appear that any polling place was inactive for more than 30 minutes.
* * * * *
Locally, the quake led Virginia Commonwealth University to cancel its convocation ceremony for new students at the Landmark Theater and prompted Richmond to close City Hall for the day to ensure its safety.
No injuries or significant damages were reported in localities in the Richmond region, but the quake prompted a flurry of emergency calls in Richmond that mostly proved unfounded.
The biggest initial concern centered on Dominion Virginia Power's North Anna nuclear plant near Mineral, about 40 miles northwest of Richmond. The earthquake knocked out power at the plant, but both nuclear units were shut down without incident and no damage was apparent, Dominion said.
"We did lose on-site power, but all the diesel generators are up and running," Dominion spokesman Richard Zuercher said 30 minutes after the quake. "Everything appears to be operating just fine."
Zuercher said North Anna's operators were preparing to manually shut down the units after the quake when the power station's operating system automatically powered down both units, which supply about 10 percent of the state's electricity.
"Their staff is obviously looking at every inch of that plant," the governor said.
The quake was the biggest in Virginia since May 5, 1897, when a 5.8 tremor began in Giles County and was felt in 12 states.
"It happened so quickly, you didn't really have time to get totally scared. Once we knew what was going on, it had actually stopped," said Sarah Copeland, director of assisted living at Imperial Plaza, a private complex with 1,100 units for the elderly on Bellevue Avenue in Richmond.
Copeland said residents didn't get too frazzled. No one was injured. After the earthquake ended, one elderly resident said, "Well, I'm going upstairs to pray."
William Harper, an employee with the town of Mineral in Louisa County, reported "some building damage" at the municipal offices.
The quake was felt "very strongly" at Montpelier, home of President James Madison in Orange County, about 30 miles from the epicenter, said spokeswoman Peggy Seiter Vaughn. "Luckily, we sustained no major damage … just a few minor cracks in the plaster, and a picture or two knocked off the wall."
In Richmond, officials inspected City Hall and other city facilities, as well as all major bridges, but found no evidence of structural damage by Tuesday evening.
City officials urged building managers of private, high-rise buildings to conduct self-inspections and report any damages. Food Lion, a North Carolina-based grocery chain, closed 25 of its stores in Virginia and Maryland to check for damage.
VCU postponed the new-student convocation so university faculty and staff members could leave early to check their homes for quake damage. The event, at which author Wes Moore was to be the keynote speaker, has not yet been rescheduled.
In Washington, the Russell Senate Office Building swayed when the quake hit, said Kevin Hall, a spokesman for U.S. Sen. Mark R. Warner, D-Va. Staff members were evacuated there, and Hall said the tremor also was felt by staff in Abingdon, in Southwest Virginia, and at an event Warner was attending in Culpeper.








Share This:
 Email

 Facebook
 Google
 Twitter
 Favorites
 More



Advertisement



 

View More: 
                        
                        
                            Airport Spokesman,
                        
                            Bob Mcdonnell,
                        
                            Capitol Square,
                        
                            Chester "Skip" Watts,
                        
                            City Hall,
                        
                            Director Of Assisted Living,
                        
                            Disaster_Accident,
                        
                            Dominion Spokesman,
                        
                            Dominion Virginia Power's North Anna Nuclear Plant,
                        
                            East  Coast,
                        
                            Electricity,
                        
                            Engineering Geologist,
                        
                            Environment,
                        
                            Fay Towers,
                        
                            Federal Aviation Administration,
                        
                            Federal Government,
                        
                            Food Lion,
                        
                            Giles County,
                        
                            Goochland County,
                        
                            Governor,
                        
                            Grocery Chain,
                        
                            Harry W. Nice Bridge,
                        
                            Imperial Plaza,
                        
                            James Madison,
                        
                            Kevin Hall,
                        
                            Keynote Speaker,
                        
                            Louisa County,
                        
                            Louisa County High School,
                        
                            Mark R. Warner,
                        
                            Maryland,
                        
                            Nancy Loveless,
                        
                            North Carolina,
                        
                            Operating System,
                        
                            Orange County,
                        
                            Patrick Henry Building,
                        
                            Peggy Seiter Vaughn,
                        
                            Potomac River,
                        
                            President,
                        
                            Radford University,
                        
                            Richard Zuercher,
                        
                            Richmond,
                        
                            Russell Senate Office Building,
                        
                            Sarah Copeland,
                        
                            Spokesman,
                        
                            Spokeswoman,
                        
                            Though Richmond International Airport,
                        
                            Troy Bell,
                        
                            United States,
                        
                            University  Of Virginia,
                        
                            University Of Virginia,
                        
                            Virginia,
                        
                            Virginia Commonwealth University,
                        
                            Virginia Commonwealth  University,
                        
                            Virginia Department Of Transportation,
                        
                            Virginia Power,
                        
                            Washington,
                        
                            White House,
                        
                            William Harper

                            Not what you're looking for?  Try our quick search:
                            
                                







 

More from this channel:

Police: Teen loses legs as she tries to hop train
Explosive missing from Phoenix airport recovered
Perry says Texas wildfire 'mean' as he's ever seen
NYC West Indian parade features dancing, singing
Pa. 9/11 video shows smoke after Flight 93 crash



 

NYC West Indian parade features dancing, singing
Internet archive shows Sept. 11 coverage
White House: Irene's federal cost $1.5 billion
US Chamber spells out its own job agenda
Patched-up schools to open after flooding in Minot

 



Advertisement









Reader Comments
*Facebook Account Required to Comment. If you are not already logged into Facebook, please click the comment button to do so.








Deal of the DayAdvertisement Most Popular1.Where are Dominion's crews working today?2.Sunken restaurant to-be is raised from James River3.Woman dies in Chesterfield wreckAdvertisement Top Videos» More Videos1:03Scientists explain Louisa quake00:49VIDEO: Morning in Virginia Beach00:13Too late to reverse I-6401:57Earthquake at Louisa High School01:17White House earthquake footage00:52Protestors voice desire for jobs...00:51VIDEO: Tree falls on car01:43Mineral Earthquake Damage04:04Jeff's Notes: Henrico prosecutor's...0Also in the News Events & Things To DoWeekMonthMapBrowse by CategoryArts & CraftsBusiness & TechCommunityDanceEducation/CampusFairs & FestivalsFood & DiningMusicOtherPerforming ArtsShoppingSports & OutdoorsVisual ArtsAdd a Listing» Complete list





Advertisement








DealTaker.com Promo Codes



Games, Puzzles & Trivia



Advergaming and Branded Media





the Richmond Times-Dispatch    
Terms and Conditions
|
Work With Us


Web Links:
Advertise With Us
|
Contact Us
|
Email Alerts
|
Times-Dispatch Shop
|
RSS Feeds
|
Mobile Alerts
|
Search
|
Find Richmond Jobs

Newspaper Links:
Subscribe to the Newspaper
|
TD-Digital
|
Kindle Edition
|
Place a Classified
|
Submit News Tips
|
Contact Us
|
Photo Reprints

Main Media Partners:
Richmond.com
|
Goochland Gazette
|
Mechanicsville Local
|
Midlothian Exchange
|
Virginia Newspapers
|
Powhatan Today
|
PolitiFact Virginia




Calais - Powered by Thomson Reuters






























