RICHMOND, VIRGINIA EXPERIENCES 5.9 EARTHQUAKE, STRONG TREMORS ALSO FELT HERE IN BROOKLYN, NY  « PUMABydesign001's Blog


PUMABydesign001's Blog
Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances.

  

 


 



RICHMOND, VIRGINIA EXPERIENCES 5.9 EARTHQUAKE, STRONG TREMORS ALSO FELT HERE IN BROOKLYN, NY


About twenty minutes ago, Richmond, VA had an earthquake that registered 5.9 on the Richter scale. If THAT was 5.9, then what on earth was it that I felt here in Brooklyn, NY?  This last tremor was the fifth tremor I felt today.
The first tremor this morning came about 9:20 a.m. and lasted about 20 seconds.  There was another shortly thereafter. Thought I was imagining things.  The bed was moving, the cat ran and hid; the air conditioner started making weird noises.
Then shortly before 11 a.m., there was yet another tremor.  This tremor was longer but  I still had not figured out what was going on. After all, this is NYC, any tremors here is barely noticeable.
Then came the big one.  Note, it might not register as the big one to folks in California but in NYC, this was the big one.  I can only pray that we do not experience anything bigger.
The furniture started moving across the floor, the cat ran and hid AGAIN. I started feeling dizzy (or so I thought) and the loud roaring.  It sounded like the building I am in was crumbling from the within.  This final tremor lasted forever or so it seemed.
As I jumped up, I had trouble getting my footing and as I looked toward the window and the whole frame appeared as if it was swaying and in the other window, I thought I was about to lose my air-conditioner for sure this time.
I could see trees in the backdrop swaying and the buildings outside were swaying back and forth it appears in the opposite direction. Of course, I am the only one in my apartment who made an effort got the hell to a safe zone.  (Some lectures are definitely overdue.)
If I drank, I would definitely have a stiff one RIGHT NOW.  My prayers are out to the people living in Richmond, Virginia and everyone else along the east coast.
In the meantime, it appears that the cellphones are down and I can’t reach 311 or those dingdong family members and friends who insist on using a cellphone.
5.9 magnitude earthquake strikes Virginia, shaking felt in New York; White House, Pentagon evacuated
Magnitude 5.8 Earthquake Hits Virginia, Sends Shockwaves Throughout East Coast



								Eco World Content From Across The Internet.
							


								Featured on EcoPressed
							

								Mental Health and Climate Change
							




Advertisement

Share this:SharePrintFacebookRedditEmailTwitterStumbleUponDiggLike this:Like2 bloggers like this post. ~ by bydesign001 on August 23, 2011.
Posted in Earthquake, Virginia 




27 Responses to “RICHMOND, VIRGINIA EXPERIENCES 5.9 EARTHQUAKE, STRONG TREMORS ALSO FELT HERE IN BROOKLYN, NY”



Randy’s Right posted that Obama immediately came out of the WH and said it was all Bush’s fault!:)

 
Brock Townsend said this on								August 23, 2011 at 3:06 pm | Reply 




Lol, Bush’s fault.  Yeah sounds just like Barry Sotero.  LMAO.

 
bydesign001 said this on								August 23, 2011 at 3:39 pm | Reply 






Daaammnnn Denise! I’m surely overjoyed you and your family are okay. I had no idea you felt that in New York. I’ll have that stiff drink for you!

 
Cry and Howl said this on								August 23, 2011 at 3:33 pm | Reply 




Hey there Steve,
It is almost 4 p.m. and the cellphones up here are still screwed up.  I was fortunate enough to talk to my niece and her family in Hampton, Virginia.  The cellphones down there are off and on as well.
Those tremors were strong.  Strong enough to rock one from side to side when walking.
Please DO have that drink, maybe a few for me, lol.

 
bydesign001 said this on								August 23, 2011 at 3:38 pm | Reply 






Hope you are okay D!

 
loopyloo305 said this on								August 23, 2011 at 3:37 pm | Reply 




Good afternoon Loopy,
Thank you.  The Lord was truly looking out.  From what I understand no one was hurt.  I thank God for that.
As for me, I’m still shaking.  I suspect that Freedom is still shaking as well.  She lives in Virginia.

 
bydesign001 said this on								August 23, 2011 at 3:40 pm | Reply 






I live South of Richmond–about an hour and 15 minutes from Louisa. (the epicenter) It scared the crap out of me.  I live in an old farmhouse and it shook & shook, the windows were all rattling, but I don’t think we had any damage. At first I thought my furnace underneath the house had turned on and was getting ready to blow. (I’ve never been in an earthquake before). My dogs didn’t react at all. While it was happening I had to yell at them to get up and come outside.
Pretty freaky. I’m watching the local news out of Richmond now. Doesn’t appear to be any major damage, though the folks near the epicenter have lost power. I guess they will be checking all of the bridges, etc. I can’t wait to ask my son how it was at school. Kids around here probably never felt anything like that.

 
Freedom, by the way said this on								August 23, 2011 at 3:38 pm | Reply 




Freedom, I am truly thankful that you and your dogs fared well.  I am thankful that the people of Richmond fared well also.  
Wow, now I got to tell you, this is some scary stuff.  My great-niece came running home, she had no idea what was happening.
My sister’s daughter just had a procedure done yesterday and thought it was the painkillers.
Let us thank God for looking out.

 
bydesign001 said this on								August 23, 2011 at 3:43 pm | Reply 






OK–update from local news.  There has been reports of lots of chimney damage (better check mine–we have two) local stores in Louisa had pane glass windows bust and of course inventory all over the floor, broken windows. But there are no reports of anyone getting hurt.

 
Freedom, by the way said this on								August 23, 2011 at 3:41 pm | Reply 




Hope you didn’t have any damage Free. Are your kids all okay?

 
loopyloo305 said this on								August 23, 2011 at 3:42 pm | Reply 




The kids are fine.  My son was laying down and I yelled for him to come out of the room.  He said that he couldn’t because he’s not dressed.  Go figure! Definitely time for emergency preparedness training in my house.
My great-niece was out shopping and she came running back home.  As mentioned in the message above, my sister’s daughter thought it was the painkillers.  Lol.

 
bydesign001 said this on								August 23, 2011 at 3:45 pm | Reply 






I am praying for you both. They are reporting afterschocks and some damage in DC!

 
loopyloo305 said this on								August 23, 2011 at 3:43 pm | Reply 




Oh gosh, please no after shocks.  Seriously, I know to expect them I just would rather do without them.
Thank you for your prayers.
No damage thank God.  The apartment building I live in is post-war and one of those emergency shelters but I can assure you that if we should expect the big one, I’m getting out of this thing.  During the last tremor, I heard too much crumbling from the structure itself.

 
bydesign001 said this on								August 23, 2011 at 3:46 pm | Reply 






My son was at school. He has cross crountry practice so I don’t pick him up until 5:15. I can’t wait to talk to him! So now he’s gone through 2 major hurricanes and one earthquake.

 
Freedom, by the way said this on								August 23, 2011 at 3:53 pm | Reply 




I am glad that he is okay Freedom.  You guys will have plenty to talk about over dinner tonight.  
Let us pray that it does not become 3 hurricanes.  Hurricane Irene is predicted to be something else for the people of South Carolina to say the least as it moves up the whole east coast

 
bydesign001 said this on								August 23, 2011 at 3:55 pm | Reply 






Listening on the radio, one man said he was in the bath tub! Talk about being unprepared!

 
loopyloo305 said this on								August 23, 2011 at 3:57 pm | Reply 




Now that’s the last place I would want to be.

 
bydesign001 said this on								August 23, 2011 at 4:07 pm | Reply 






Some damage at Tyson’s Corner:
Video: Several cars crushed by falling bricks in Tysons Corner, Virginia – Pauldonovan08 via @mpoppel

 
loopyloo305 said this on								August 23, 2011 at 4:00 pm | Reply 




Oh my goodness, I just checked out the video of Tyson’s Corner.  That is a mess.  I hope no one got hurt and the damage minimal.  Although looking at the damage to the parked cars, yikes!

 
bydesign001 said this on								August 23, 2011 at 4:14 pm | Reply 






What really brings it home–don’t get rid of your land lines. It’s almost impossible to get a cell call through right now. I’ve thought a few times about ditching the land line to save $ but I can see that you do need both. When something happens everyone jumps on the phone and no one can get through.

 
Freedom, by the way said this on								August 23, 2011 at 4:07 pm | Reply 




You are so right Freedom.  I am just able to reach some family members.  
When we had the interstate blackout several years ago, I was the only person in a 48 family building that had a working phone.  Everyone else had cellphones and could not reach anyone.
Now I had a cellphone as well but to Verizon’s credit, they were the only wireless cellphone company whose service stayed up and running.  Sprint, T-Mobile and the rest of the crew was out of business.
There is something to be said about land lines.

 
bydesign001 said this on								August 23, 2011 at 4:11 pm | Reply 






[...] that registered 5.9 on the Richter scale. If THAT was 5.9, then what on earth was it that I feltFull news story   This entry was posted in TOP News and tagged earthquake, richmond, richmond earthquake 2011, [...]


RICHMOND, VIRGINIA EXPERIENCES 5.9 EARTHQUAKE, STRONG TREMORS ALSO | Top Rated News said this on								August 23, 2011 at 4:23 pm | Reply 




[...] Crazy that it was felt all the way in NYC. Read New Yorker, Pumabydesign’s post Richmond Virginia Experiences 5.9 Earthquake, Strong Tremors Also Felt Here in Brooklyn.  [...]

 
Shake, Rattle & Roll. Earthquake Shook Me Up! (But all is well). « freedombytheway said this on								August 23, 2011 at 4:26 pm | Reply 




I’m very happy you and your family are okay Denise, and all of your friends here that live in that area. I had no idea the quake was felt in New York. I barely heard about it taking place in Virginia as I was working. I need to check on Bob A.

 
Cry and Howl said this on								August 23, 2011 at 10:07 pm | Reply 




Thanks for your concern Steve.  I became particular nervous because I am aware that there is a main fault that runs through Manhattan under the Brooklyn Bridge in the East River and down Flatbush Avenue.  How far down, escapes me but didn’t make me feel any better.
At least I was not in Manhattan.  I think I’ll stay away from the Discovery and Weather channels for a little bit.

 
bydesign001 said this on								August 24, 2011 at 2:27 am | Reply 






I’m relieved everyone’s OK, —  From the videos of the damage at Tyson’s it’s amazing no one got hurt.. that’s a busy place
I first heard about from one of my daughters. in Baltimore.. She called and  said I’m still shaking—  I had no idea….
“D” those were some great comments you tweeted.. I want to grab a couple, by the time I had a chance they were gone

 
Grumpy Elder (@Grumpyelder) said this on								August 23, 2011 at 10:23 pm | Reply 




I agree Grumpy.  A few bricks and a few cars destroyed appeared to be the max.  While stressful, all must be thankful that is the worst of it.

 
bydesign001 said this on								August 24, 2011 at 2:21 am | Reply 










 
Leave a Reply Cancel reply



Enter your comment here...





Guest
Log In
Log In
Log In









Email (required) (Not published)



Name (required)



Website











Please log in to WordPress.com to post a comment to your blog.













 You are commenting using your Twitter account. (Log Out)












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. (Log Out)




Connecting to %s



 Notify me of follow-up comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.







 

 


 Blog Stats 
336,990 hits

Clustrmaps 


 





Say No to Online Censorship
 

Home of the Brave

NO GROUND ZERO MOSQUE Online Petition

 http://www.nap.edu/napbookwrapper.swf

Honorary Residency State of ArizonaOffice of Legal Residencey
KEEP ARIZONA SAFEPLEASE SUPPORT THIS CAUSE.
ADD THIS 



RSS Feed – Subscribe RSS - Posts
The Crockett’s Corner Daily
 
 HOT AIRMSM: ObamaCare was Obama’s biggest mistake KarlAustralian football brings together a Peace Team of Israelis and Palestinians Tina KorbeYour right to record the police Jazz ShawHoffa at Obama rally: We need to take these tea party sons of bitches out AllahpunditOpen thread: The South Carolina GOP presidential forum Jazz ShawClosed primaries and “radicalization” Jazz ShawUS Post Office on the brink of default Jazz ShawSaying goodbye to a true family man Ed MorrisseyQuotes of the day AllahpunditIs it time to start charging for water? Jazz Shaw 





 p>
 
Blogroll

American and Proud
American Women Veterans (AWV)
Angry White Dude
Another Pundit
Arlene Army's Blog
Bare Naked Islam
Be Sure You're RIGHT, Then Go Ahead
Black Sphere
Blogsensebybarb
Boudica BPI Weblog
COMMIE BLASTER
COMMON SENSE FROM A COMMON MAN
CONSERVATIVE FIRST
Conservative Thoughts and Profundity
CONSTITUTIONAL VOICES
Cry and Howl
Defining the Narrative
DevilDog6771
et cetera*
Food Freedom
FREE NORTH CAROLINA
Freedombytheway
From the Wisdom of our Founders
Gay Patriot
GlennBeck.com
Grab and Keel
Hoosier Army Mom\’s Weblog
http://arlenearmy.wordpress.com/
http://beyondthecurtain.wordpress.com
http://fightinwordsusa.wordpress.com
http://politicalness.wordpress.com
Ike Jakson\’s Blog
Investigating Obama
Ironic Surrealism v3
JILL STANEK PRO LIFE PULSE
LisaInTX'S Blog
Lorinov's Blog
LUX LIBERTAS
Michelle Malkin
MR. CAPS – EXPOSING THE TYRANNY OF THE DEMOCRATIC PARTY
Ms. Underestimated
Murray M. Silver, Esq. – Legaleagle
Muslimah Media Watch
Nasir Khan blog
NATIVE AMERICANS’ RIGHTS
ON MY WATCH – the writings of SamHenry
Our Country in Change
PAJAMAS MEDIA
Politics, Religion, and Family
Pro and Con
Publius-Huldah\’s Blog
Question with Boldness
RBO
Romanticpoet\’s Weblog
Samantha\’s blog
Smoke and Mirrors
Sovereign Think
Spirit Justice
Sstorm0730\’s Blog
Start Thinking Right
Talk Story
Tarheel Pundit
Tarheel Red
The Bard of Murdock
The Lahaina Zoo Factory
THE MAD JEWETTE
The Mega Independent Post Dispatch
THE MILLSTONE DIARIES
The Obama File
The Religion of Peace
The Spirit of Truth Blog
The Stupidest Man on Earth
Today I'm Grumpy About
TRUTH IS GOLD
Twilight's Last Gleaming
USMC 1949
Viewpoints of a Sagittarian
VOTING AMERICAN – God Bless the United States of America
Voting Female
Who Runs Gov
Winds of Jihad
Woman Honor Thy Self
Women News Network Breaking News Portal
WordPress.com
WordPress.com Blog
YOU DECIDE

 

Watch videos at Vodpod and other videos from this collection.

  Recent Posts 
D.C. Turnabout Protest Fair Play – The Union News
Colorado School Comes Under Fire for Hanging Saudi Flag Higher Than American Flag
One of Obama’s PAY TO PLAY Scams Exposed
Unemployment: Obama, “I Created 2 Million Jobs”
Barack Obama’s Job Generating Machine


 Recent Comments AFVET on Colorado School Comes Under Fire for Hanging Saudi Flag Higher Than American Flagblogsense-by-barb on Bring it on home; U.S. companies must fight their greed and reduce outsourcing! (via UsneakydevilU)Colorado School Comes Under Fire for Hanging Saudi Flag Higher Than American Flag (via PUMABydesign001′s Blog) | blogsense-by-barb on Colorado School Comes Under Fire for Hanging Saudi Flag Higher Than American Flagblogsense-by-barb on Colorado School Comes Under Fire for Hanging Saudi Flag Higher Than American FlagBrock Townsend on Unemployment: Obama, “I Created 2 Million Jobs”



 

Blog at WordPress.com. Theme: ChaoticSoul by Bryan Veloso. 
































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			






