Virginia earthquake felt in Washington and New York..Nuclear reactors shut down « Follow The Money


Follow The Money
"It has to start somewhere. It has to start sometime. What better place than here? What better time than now?"

  

 


 



Virginia earthquake felt in Washington and New York..Nuclear reactors shut down


http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-us-canada-14634730
A magnitude-5.8 earthquake has rattled the east coast of the United States.
The quake centred on the state of Virginia but was felt in Washington, where the Pentagon and US Capitol were evacuated, as well as in New York.
The National Cathedral was among buildings damaged, although there were no immediate reports of injuries.
Federal officials said two nuclear reactors had been taken offline near the epicentre of the quake but that no damage had been reported.
A total of 12 nuclear plants declared “unusual events” after the quake.
The quake struck some 84 miles (135km) from south-west of Washington, at a depth of 3.7 miles (6km), the US Geological Survey (USGS) said.
Its epicentre was about 8km (five miles) from the town of Mineral, in the state of Virginia.
An initial measurement of 5.8 was later upgraded to 5.9, but later amended back to 5.8 by the USGS.
The quake was one of the most powerful on the east coast of the US since 1897, according to USGS records, matching the strength of a tremor in the state of New York in 1944.
http://www.presstv.ir/detail/195430.html
An earthquake measuring 5.9 on the Richter scale has struck the United States’ east coast and Canada, shutting down two nuclear reactors in Louisiana, shaking many cities and delaying flights.
Safety systems automatically shut down two nuclear reactors at the North Anna Power Station in Louisiana when the earthquake happened, said Roger Hannah, the Associated Press quoted a spokesman for the US Nuclear Regulatory Commission as saying.
According to the US Geological Survey, the earthquake happened at a very shallow depth of 800 meters (about half a mile) and centered about 64 kilometers (40 miles) northwest of Richmond, Virginia, at 1:51 p.m. EDT (1751 GMT).
The White House, Pentagon and the US Capitol were evacuated.
In New York City and New Jersey, the control towers at the John F. Kennedy Airport and the Newark Liberty Airport were evacuated and the flights were put on hold.
At present, US President Barack Obama and many of the government officials are vacationing on the Martha’s Vineyard golf course.
There have been no immediate reports of the possible casualties or serious damages.
The quake was also felt in Toronto, Canada.
———–
“A total of 12 nuclear plants declared “unusual events” after the quake.”
a totally over hyped event..people said it felt like 9/11 again..uh huh..i am more interested in where it hit..and if there is a fault underneath there?
401

Advertisement

Rate this:

Share this:TwitterFacebookRedditStumbleUponDiggEmailLike this:LikeBe the first to like this post. ~ by seeker401 on August 25, 2011.
Posted in USA 




14 Responses to “Virginia earthquake felt in Washington and New York..Nuclear reactors shut down”


This earthquake is too shady!  Gaddafi has been USA’s enemy in Africa for almost 40 years and on the day he’s toppled, Washington DC gets hit with a super rare earthquake?
This is almost certainly Russia using its own HAARP technology to warn USA against invading one of its last OIL partners, Iran, within 24 hours of toppling their friend Libya.  Russia couldn’t stop an “uprising” with USA funding in Libya, but I doubt it will stand by and let USA or NATO invade Iran, so as a warning, boom, you can topple a government, look what they can do to the very ground beneath your feet!  If HAARP didn’t really exist in Russia and USA I would think I’m writing for a cheesy James Bond film, but it’s reality.
in fact I would totally see military intervention by Russia if we tried to take over the last place we don’t have a presence (Iran), so WW3 is coming and I never  thought Geological Warfare would be part of it!  
Japan Victim 1.
USA Victim 2.
Who’s next?
Russian HAARP was used against Japan to create devastation and make that nation call in its debts, USA being its single largest debtor, indirectly causing the latest financial crisis.  It’s all relative and at the same time too coincidental.
Someone out there is trying to topple the USA and for the first time in a while I think USA may not be involved at all.

 
Dude said this on								August 25, 2011 at 11:24 am | Reply 



hi dude..good post..we are totally aware of haarp..i wanted to think it couldnt be connected..but..truth is stranger than fiction and anything is possible  

 
seeker401 said this on								August 25, 2011 at 11:36 am | Reply 





It’s got to be HAARP, but Russia.  A lot of people believe in a world wide conspiracy, and I don’t think they’re too far off, but Russia has no part in it, wants no part in it unless it can run it, and America/Europe runs it, not Russia, so the fight in the school yard has never ended.
Now, back to HAARP, Russia has testing this technology since BEFORE the USA even tried to develop it (depending which source you want to believe), so Russia definitely has a better grip on this type of tech.  The Duma even had a vote on it to NOT do any testing because it posed a danger to the earth’s geology.  Their parliament actually had a vote on not using HAARP, sort of like American congress voting against military action somewhere and the CIA goes in anyway.  
I really hope people start to wake up and realize Russia and the USA are not friends even now, and Russia never went away after the Berlin Wall fell, and it didn’t forget how America bankrupted them;  payback time.
I’d watch  out if I lived in USA.

 
Dude said this on								August 25, 2011 at 11:54 am | Reply 



interesting ..thanks dude

 
seeker401 said this on								August 25, 2011 at 12:27 pm | Reply 





Yes there is a fault, but it is not very active, at least not in recent years.  It is odd that there have been several quakes on the 37th parallel, also interesting that the quake in Colorado was on the same latitude, not the usual stuff we are used to seeing.  However, things looks like they are settling down now and I agree, I saw the news about the quake, comparing it to nine 11, very over hyped.  
One more fact-Almost positive that magnitude was larger, have some information that shows it bigger.  What is interesting is that is was a 5.9, and the nuclear plant near the quake, and most of the plants in the East part of the U.S. are built to withstand a 5.9-6.1 magnitude quake, so it is really lucky that this quake was not bigger.  Smiles.  
“The Virginia earthquake of 2011 August 23 occurred as reverse faulting on a north or northeast-striking plane within a previously recognized seismic zone, the “Central Virginia Seismic Zone.” The Central Virginia Seismic Zone has produced small and moderate earthquakes since at least the 18th century. The previous largest historical shock from the Central Virginia Seismic Zone occurred in 1875. The 1875 shock occurred before the invention of effective seismographs, but the felt area of the shock suggests that it had a magnitude of about 4.8. The 1875 earthquake shook bricks from chimneys, broke plaster and windows, and overturned furniture at several locations. A magnitude 4.5 earthquake on 2003, December 9, also produced minor damage.”
http://earthquake.usgs.gov/earthquakes/recenteqsww/Quakes/se082311a.html#summary

 
twoells said this on								August 25, 2011 at 1:24 pm | Reply 



yes i believe it may have been called a 6.8 originally..37th parallel hmm..cant panic the slaves before they get hit..

 
seeker401 said this on								August 25, 2011 at 2:17 pm | Reply 





I’m thinking it really doesn’t matter whose version of Haarp it was, be it Washington or Moscow. The purpose is to create mayem. The quake didn’t quite do it in DC, but this weekend’s hurricane Irene just might. It’s suppose to slam into the east coast of the US Saturday and Sunday somewhere between DC and NYC; very heavily populated areas. If lights and water are gone in that section of the country for very long, there will be riots, looting and violence that will require the national guard to put down. I hope they’re ready.
I blamed HAARP for the hurricane that hit New Orleans awhile back, and we all know what happened in the aftermath of that one.
Haarp technology will be the end of us all if something is not done. I heard it was the US version that was used to create the quake in Japan. It was a warning not to get in bed with the Chinese. Don’t know if that’s correct though.

 
Ghog said this on								August 26, 2011 at 8:02 am | Reply 



i see irene just steadily working its way to NY..lets pray for no loss of life..it looks like its going to be sort of ugly though..

 
seeker401 said this on								August 26, 2011 at 8:49 am | Reply 





LOOKS TO ME that Congress & the Political Elite in the near proximity of the epicenter.

 
dthorn420 said this on								August 26, 2011 at 9:17 am | Reply 



that wasn’t an EQ, that was the Collective Founding Fathers rolling in their graves!

 
H1 said this on								August 26, 2011 at 12:36 pm | Reply 



werd..get ya umbrellas out!

 
seeker401 said this on								August 26, 2011 at 1:05 pm | Reply 





Wow. An earthquake and then a hurricane the same week. This is way to much to simply be a coincedence…

 
hartrw said this on								August 27, 2011 at 10:21 pm | Reply 



Excuse my ignorance and willingness to learn, but somewone please tell me what is…a Russian HAARP  ?

 
dthorn420 said this on								August 28, 2011 at 1:44 am | Reply 



Its a high power antenna array that can direct electromagnetic energy at the ionosphere causing heating and secondary extremely low frequency emissions. The heating of the ionosphere causes it to rise which in turn can be used to direct the path of a storm or jetstream. This can also be used to cause seasonal floods or droughts in a particular region. Additionally the secondary ELF energy can be directed back toward the ground and used to probe for subterranean caverns. If enough of this Energy is directed at a fault it can cause it to slip resulting in an earthquake, similar to how solar flares can direct energy at the earth causing earthquakes.

 
hartrw said this on								August 28, 2011 at 8:44 am | Reply 










 
Leave a Reply Cancel reply



Enter your comment here...





Guest
Log In
Log In
Log In









Email (required) (Not published)



Name (required)



Website











Please log in to WordPress.com to post a comment to your blog.













 You are commenting using your Twitter account. (Log Out)












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. (Log Out)




Connecting to %s



 Notify me of follow-up comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.







 

 


Breaking News
MORE: Libyan convey crossing into Niger contained 200-250 vehicles; arrived in Agadez late Monday - Reuters 18 minutes ago
Large convoy of Libyan armored vehicles arrives in Niger under military escort, French and Nigerian military sources tell Reuters 40 minutes ago
Man straps a bomb to himself and is holding a girl, 11, hostage in Australian family court - DailyTelegraph http://t.co/NJGoc6g 45 minutes ago
8,000 told to evacuate homes from approaching fire near Houston, Texas - @KTRKHouston http://t.co/9B06y3Y 50 minutes ago
Heavy rains flood streets in Birmingham, AL; 3.5 inches recorded by 4pm - AL.com http://t.co/I4ovhxh 1 hour ago

  Latest posts 
Microsoft “intentionally designed software for phones to track customers without their consent”
Iran says nuclear-power plant “operational”
Stieg Larsson – Millenium Series books/movies
Is this the UN’s “Abu Ghraib moment” in Haiti?
Russia agrees to $65B rail & tunnel project linking Siberia and Alaska
Looking for the deepest laws of the universe
The End of Eden
Evidence indicates global warming is caused by cosmic rays and the sun — not humans
US infected more Guatemalans than previously thought
“US raids kill al-Qaeda fighters” in Yemen..how do they know they are al Qaeda?
The U.N Trap pt.1/14
China seeks to legalise “disappearances”
Terry Richardson (think Lady Gaga) and his Vogue shoot
Mobile internet use nearing 50% in UK
Goldman Sachs ripped off Gaddafi

follow the money 
RT @BORNasZOEY: Damn russia RT @seeker401: Iran says nuclear-power plant “operational” http://t.co/ga4seKc 18 minutes ago
RT @amandascout1: Moonday ♡ RT @MrsLuckyDestiny: Happy #MoonDay twitfam ! Love, M. @starcana @wizard_paradox @JewIshGypsy @SagittarianMi ... 18 minutes ago
RT @SagittarianMind: Yo, Yo!! RT @msdeem9: Moonday wave~~@MrsLuckyDestiny @starcana @wizard_paradox @JewIshGypsy @SagittarianMind @seeke ... 19 minutes ago
Microsoft “intentionally designed software for phones to track customers without their consent” http://t.co/FEhZQc9 1 hour ago
Iran says nuclear-power plant “operational” http://t.co/QrkB4Pn 1 hour ago

Follow @seeker401 follow the money rss feedMicrosoft “intentionally designed software for phones to track customers without their consent” September 5, 2011 seeker401#wiredpirate – click pic to chat 


  visitors from 5th March 2009 
2,336,123 FOLLOWING THE MONEY

Categories
Select Category
9/11
Abkhazia
Abu Dhabi
Afghanistan
Africa
Alaska
Albania
Algeria
Angola
Antarctica
Arctic
Argentina
Armenia
Asia
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Belarus
Belgium
Bhutan
Bolivia
Bosnia
Brazil
Bulgaria
Burma
Cambodia
Cameroon
Canada
Chechnya
Chile
China
Climate Change
Colombia
Congo
Costa Rica
Cote d’Ivoire
Croatia
Cuba
Cyprus
Czech Republic
Denmark
Derivatives
Djibouti
Dominican Republic
East Timor
Ecuador
Egypt
El Salvador
Eritrea
Estonia
Ethiopia
Europe
Finland
France
FTM Fan Pictures
Gabon
Gambia
Georgia
Germany
Ghana
Greece
Greenland
Guam
Guatemala
Guinea
Haiti
Holland
Honduras
Hong Kong
Hungary
Iceland
India
Indonesia
Interfaith
Iran
Iraq
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Ivory Coast
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kosovo
Kuwait
Kyrgyzstan
Latvia
Lebanon
Liberia
Libya
Lithuania
Madagascar
Malawi
Malaysia
Maldives
Mali
Mexico
Middle East
Moldovia
Mongolia
Montenegro
Morocco
Mozambique
Music, Sport & Entertainment
Myanmar
Namibia
Nepal
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nicaragua
Niger
Nigeria
North Korea
Northern Ireland
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Papua New Guinea
Paraguay
Peru
Phillipines
Poland
Portugal
Puerto Rico
Qatar
Religion
Robotic Agenda
Romania
Russia
Samoa
Saudi Arabia
Scotland
Senegal
Serbia
Seychelles
Siberia
Sierra Leone
Singapore
Somalia
South Africa
South Korea
South Sudan
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sudan
Sumatra
Swaziland
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tajikistan
Tanzania
Thailand
Tibet
Tonga
Trinidad & Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turkmenistan
UAE
Uganda
UK
Ukraine
Uncategorized
Uruguay
USA
Uzbekistan
Vanuatu
Vatican
Venezuela
Vietnam
World Finances
World News
Yemen
Zambia
Zimbabwe


 



Blogroll

911 Project Timeline
Abel Danger
Aftermath News
Al Jazeera English
As . tro. tom' . e . try
Associated Press
Avenue Of Light
BBC News
Biblical Times News
Bloomberg
Chaotic Fate
Climate Depot
Daily Mail UK
Daily Stockmarket Forecast
Daniel Estulin
FDR-AllOverAgain
Freemasonry Watch
Global Research
Goro Adachi
Hypertiger
Jane Burgermeister
Jerusalem Post
Karl Denninger
Kitco
Labyrinth of the Psychonaut
Ludwig von Mises Institute
Martin Armstrong
Max Keiser
MEED
Natural News
POLITEIA
Real-Time Web Monitor
Restore The Republic
Reuters
Russia Today
Space Weather
Spiegel
Sy5551′s Blog
The 2012 Deception
The CrowHouse
The Enigma Channel
The Galactic Centre 2012
The Hidden Records
The Industry Exposed
The Market Oracle
The Pop Culture Pastor
The Raziel Remnants
The Secret Sun
Thebarcaroller
There Is Nothing New Under The Sun
UPI
USGS
Veritas 6464
Vigilant Citizen
Volcano Live
Wall Street Journal
What Really Happened
Wired
Xinhua Net
Zen Trader

Watch videos at Vodpod and other videos from this collection.

  Recent Comments seeker401 on Exxon Mobil clinches Arctic oi…seeker401 on Evidence indicates global warm…Ridiculed Conspiraci… on New fault stretches from N.Y. …xxx on Exxon Mobil clinches Arctic oi…seeker401 on Evidence indicates global warm…seeker401 on The End of Edenseeker401 on The End of Edenxxx on Evidence indicates global warm…seeker401 on The U.N Trap pt.1/14seeker401 on The U.N Trap pt.1/14seeker401 on An explosive story on Indian c…seeker401 on Evidence indicates global warm…seeker401 on Evidence indicates global warm…seeker401 on Charles “Chuck” Fe…seeker401 on The End of Eden
Archives  Select Month  September 2011  (36)
 August 2011  (193)
 July 2011  (188)
 June 2011  (170)
 May 2011  (176)
 April 2011  (168)
 March 2011  (190)
 February 2011  (184)
 January 2011  (188)
 December 2010  (186)
 November 2010  (183)
 October 2010  (205)
 September 2010  (183)
 August 2010  (189)
 July 2010  (180)
 June 2010  (183)
 May 2010  (198)
 April 2010  (169)
 March 2010  (179)
 February 2010  (157)
 January 2010  (180)
 December 2009  (202)
 November 2009  (194)
 October 2009  (172)
 September 2009  (188)
 August 2009  (147)
 July 2009  (152)
 June 2009  (128)
 May 2009  (108)
 April 2009  (71)
 March 2009  (50)

  Top Clicks grahamphillips.net/eden/eden_1…grahamphillips.net/eden/eden_1…seeker401.files.wordpress.com/…followthemoney.forumotion.net/…theresnothingnew.org/index/mn3…seeker401.files.wordpress.com/…seeker401.files.wordpress.com/…seeker401.files.wordpress.com/…ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/169085…seeker401.files.wordpress.com/…blog.alexanderhiggins.com/2011…seeker401.files.wordpress.com/… Gravatar
Follow The Money
“ Signs and symbols rule the world, not words nor laws. ” – Confucious  
” Military men are just dumb stupid animals, to be used as pawns in foreign policy. ”  – Henry Kissinger 
” We are on the verge of a global transformation. All we need is the right major crisis and the nations will accept the New World Order. ” – David Rockefeller 
” How pale is the art of sorcerers, witches, and conjurors when compared with that of the government’s Treasury Department! ” – Ludwig von Mises 
“ It is well enough that people of the nation do not understand our banking and monetary system, for if they did, I believe there would be a revolution before tomorrow morning. ” – Henry Ford 
” To you, Sovereign Instructors of Grade 33, we tell you: you have to repeat to the brothers of inferior grades that we worship only one God to whom we pray without superstition. It is we, initiated in the Supreme Grade, that are to keep the real Masonic religion preserving pure the Lucifer doctrine. ” – Albert Pike 
” The Jesuits…are a secret society – a sort of Masonic order – with superadded features of revolting odiousness, and a thousand times more dangerous. ” – Samuel Morse  
” If I were reincarnated, I would wish to be returned to earth as a killer virus to lower human population levels. ” – HRH Prince Phillip 
“ I have learnt most of all from the Jesuit Order. So far, there has been nothing more imposing on earth than the hierarchical organization of the Catholic Church. A good part of that organization I have transported direct to my own party. The Catholic Church must be held up as an example. I will tell you a secret. I am founding an order. In Himmler (who would become head of the Nazi party) I see our Ignatius de Loyola (Jesuit founder). ” – Adolph Hitler 
” In order to stabilize world population, we must eliminate 350,000 per day. ” – Jacques Cousteau  
“ Give me control of a nation’s money and I care not who makes it’s laws. ” – Mayer Amschel Bauer Rothschild 
” No one will enter the New World Order unless he or she will make a pledge to worship Lucifer. No one will enter the New Age unless he will take a Luciferian Initiation. ” – David Spangler UN 
” We know in the not too distant future, a half dozen corporations are going to control the media. ” – Time Warner 
” The high office of President has been used to ferment a plot to destroy the Americans freedom, and before I leave office I must inform the citizens of this plight. ” – jfk 
” The Jesuits are a MILITARY organization, not a religious order. Their chief is a general of an army, not the mere father abbot of a monastery. And the aim of this organization is power – power in its most despotic exercise – absolute power, universal power, power to control the world by the volition of a single man. Jesuitism is the most absolute of despotisms – and at the same time the greatest and most enormous of abuses. ” – Napoleon Bonaparte 
” … in politics nothing is accidental. If something happens, be assured it was planned this way. ” – Franklin D Roosevelt 
” It is my opinion that if the liberties of this country – the United States of America – are destroyed, it will be by the subtlety of the Roman Catholic Jesuit priests, for they are the most crafty, dangerous enemies to civil and religious liberty. They have instigated MOST of the wars of Europe. ” – Marquis de LaFayette 
” The society will be dominated by an elite of persons free from traditional values who will have no doubt in fulfilling their objectives by means of purged techniques with which they will influence the behavior of people and will control and watch the society in all details. It will become possible to exert a practically permanent watch on each citizen of the world. ” – Zbigniew Brzezinski 
” The world is governed by very different personages from what is imagined by those who are’nt behind the scenes. ” – Benjamin Disraeli 
” If we like it or not, we will have a One World Government. The question is if it will be achieved through consent or through conquest. ” – james warburg 
” The United Nations is but a long range, international banking apparatus clearly set up for financial and economic profit by a small group of powerful One World revolutionaries, hungry for profit and power. ” – curtis dall 
“ It is not my intention to doubt that the doctrine of the Illuminati and the principles of Jacobinism had not spread in the United States. On the contrary, no one is more satisfied of this fact than I am. ” – George washington 
” Blinding ignorance does mislead us. Oh Wretched mortals, open your eyes! ” – Leonardo da Vinci 
“ There is nothing new in the world except the history you do not know. ” – harry truman 
” It’s a big club, and you ain’t in it. You and I are not in the big club. ” – George Carlin  
” I will warn you against him (the Dajjal,anti-christ)… but I tell you about him something of which no prophet told his nation before me. You should know that he is one-eyed, and Allah is not one-eyed. ” – Prophet Mohammed 
” Those who manipulate the organized habits and opinions of the masses constitute an invisible government which is the true ruling power of our country. ” – Edward Bernays CBS 
” And at the same time the consciousness of being at war, and therefore in danger, makes the handing-over of all power to a small caste seem the natural, unavoidable condition of survival… It does not matter whether the war is actually happening, and, since no decisive victory is possible, it does not matter whether the war is going well or badly. All that is needed is that a state of war should exist… The war, therefore, if we judge it by the standards of previous wars, is merely an imposture. It is like the battles between certain ruminant animals whose horns are set at such an angle that they are incapable of hurting one another. But though it is unreal it is not meaningless. It eats up the surplus of consumable goods, and it helps to preserve the special mental atmosphere that a hierarchical society needs. War, it will be seen, is now a purely internal affair. In the past, the ruling groups of all countries, although they might recognize their common interest and therefore limit the destructiveness of war, did fight against one another, and the victor always plundered the vanquished. In our own day they are not fighting against one another at all. The war is waged by each ruling group against its own subjects, and the object of the war is not to make or prevent conquests of territory, but to keep the structure of society intact. The very word ‘war’, therefore, has become misleading. It would probably be accurate to say that by becoming continuous war has ceased to exist. ” – george orwell 
” In the country of the blind, the one-eyed man is king ” –  Erasmus 
“There’s no way to rule innocent men. The only power any government has is the power to crack down on criminals. Well, when there aren’t enough criminals, one makes them. One declares so many things to be a crime that it becomes impossible for men to live without breaking laws.” – Ayn Rand 
Meta 
Register Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.com




 

Blog at WordPress.com. Theme: ChaoticSoul by Bryan Veloso. 






































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			






