A Catholic Citizen in America: Virginia Earthquake: Cracked Cathedral, No Deaths, Frustrating 911 System






skip to main  |
      skip to sidebar














































Wednesday, August 24, 2011





Virginia Earthquake: Cracked Cathedral, No Deaths, Frustrating 911 System





First, the good news.

As far as I've read, nobody was killed in Virginia's 5.8 earthquake yesterday afternoon. Sounds like there weren't even serious injuries.

Now, the bad news.

Folks in America's northeast were shaken up, literally and figuratively; property damage is worse than officials first thought it was, and the 911 emergency system still can't handle a lot of calls at the same time.

Still, as we say here in Minnesota, it could be worse.
What's so Spiritual About an Earthquake?I suppose the obviously 'religious' angle on yesterday's earthquake is damage to places of worship. One of the high-profile buildings hit was the Washington National Cathedral.

There's a sane, reasonable way to look at a cracked cathedral. I'll get to that after the next heading. I can think of some not-so-sane ways to look at the earthquake, too.

Another 'religious' angle on the earthquake is to thank God - literally - that nobody got hurt. Between falling spires and scrambled schools, it's a wonder we're not looking at body counts. I took a little time out for a quick prayer of thanks - like I've said before, it can't hurt.

A not-so-obviously faith-related aspect of the quake is what it showed about the emergency response system. Seriously, folks, we can't keep hoping that:
We won't really need 911 in an emergency
Or, if we doMassive disasters willPace themselves decentlyWith plenty of time between each step


Only one person will call 911 for each emergency

I'll get back to that.
Washington National Cathedral Closed for RepairsThe Washington National Cathedral says they'll be closed until August 27. The Martin Luther King prayer service will be at the National Shrine. I'm assuming that's the Basilica of the National Shrine of the Immaculate Conception, Washington, D.C., but I could be wrong: it'd be best to check locally, if you plan to be there.
Cracks in the National CathedralThe Washington National Cathedral is still standing - but it's damaged. The Houston Chronicle says three of the tower's four spires broke off, and some of the flying buttresses have cracks.

It'll take millions of dollars to fix the damage. Despite the name, the Washington National Cathedral isn't part of the federal government. It's not supported by taxes. So, like they say on their website:
"Today, we need your help to restore this majestic landmark. Please give today to join the efforts of preserving this national treasure."
("Cathedral Shaken by Earthquake" - Help Repair the Cathedral - Washington National Cathedral)I had to read the headlines twice before I got it clear which of Washington's "national" Catholic places of worship got hit badly. There are two with names that sound sort of alike. To me, anyway:
Washington National Cathedral
Basilica of the National Shrine of the Immaculate Conception, Washington, D.C.
No State ChurchI'm not criticizing the name, but "Washington National Cathedral" might sound like 'evidence' that there's some kinda plot to start a state religion.

Maybe it's my biases talking but I suspect that folks with either of two apparently-unlike attitudes might get the wrong idea about the National Cathedral. Think about it: both the rabidly anti-Catholic 'death cookie' preachers, and the folks who have conniptions each time they see "God" in print, want to protect America from 'those Catholics.'

In both cases, I suppose they think they're justified: the one lot apparently assumes that anything they don't like is Satanic; the other seems convinced that the Constitution's first amendment starts with "Congress shall make no law supporting an establishment of religion, or allowing the free exercise thereof...."1 And that's another topic. Topics.Rules and the Catholic CitizenI'm a Catholic. I take my faith seriously. I live in a country where I'm allowed to vote, express my concerns about the government, and even criticize local, state, and national leaders. Most of the time, anyway: we're going through another interesting era just now. More topics.2

There's something to the notion that the Catholic Church has rules about everything:"It is the duty of citizens to work with civil authority for building up society in a spirit of truth, justice, solidarity, and freedom."
(Catechism, 2255)Bottom line: I can't be 'above such mundane things' as how my country works. (Catechism: 1915, 2199, 2238-43, and more)

Which is why I don't think it's out of place to bring up the emergency response system in this blog.911, Citizenship, and Being CatholicI think the '911' emergency system is a good idea: one number that's supposed to be useful for folks with just about any sort of emergency. I remember when it was getting introduced, starting almost a half-century ago.3

I also remember that the '911' system has never worked perfectly. Some accounts made me wonder if maybe equipping everyone with carrier pigeons might be a more swift and effective way of getting help to folks in trouble.

I think one problem the 911 system has is that it:IsHuge
Complicated

InvolvesSeveral government agencies
Technology that hasn't stopped changing

In a way, it's a wonder that 911 works at all.

After the September 11, 2001, attack on the east coast, folks in the northeast were not at all happy about 911 and telephone service in general. Particularly folks who lived and worked in south Manhattan: and weren't killed when quarter-mile-tall skyscrapers came crashing down.

The telephone system was adequate, I gather, pretty much most of the time in the area. Except when a lot of folks decided to use their phones at the same time, or some equipment was on the fritz.

Then airliners hit the New York World Trade Center. Thousands of folks started running out of the building. Others were trapped on floors above the fires. A whole lot more saw what was happening on the skyline: and the communications network got overloaded.

That wasn't supposed to happen again.

Yesterday's earthquake was, it a way, a good live drill for the northeast's emergency response system.

Like I said the good news is that nobody got killed.

Whether you call it luck or providence, I don't think we can count on coming away with a few broken buildings and millions of dollars in repair bills next time. I don't know enough about the situation to know what action makes sense - apart from drawing attention to an inadequate communications system.God Smiting the Unbeliever??Then there's the 'religious wacko' thing.

I haven't heard some preacher saying that a vengeful God has wreaked terrible vengeance on an evil administration - leaving the White House and Congress untouched. Or maybe it'd be a judgment on those Catholics - and high school students in Louisa County, Virginia.

But I haven't been looking for the screwball end of religious expression in this country. A high-profile, expensive, disaster like this ought to be good for at least a few bombastically 'Biblical' bags of balderdash. Which, sadly, a few folks will earnestly believe. Yet again more topics.

Related posts:
"Harold Camping, Family Radio, and Common Sense"
(May 21, 2011)
"Japan, Catholic Relief Services, and Fraternal Sharing"
(March 20, 2011)
"Providence, God's Tender Kindness, and Training a Mule"
(September 24, 2010)
"Archbishop: "Let's Not Forget Haiti" - Works for Me"
(June 9, 2010)
"Haiti: Voodoo, Pat Robertson, and the Catholic Church"
(January 16, 2010)
In the news:
"Officials tour earthquake epicenter"
Michael Sluss, The Roanoke Times (August 24, 2011)
"Quake Exposes Post-9/11 Cracks in Cellphone Coverage, Emergency Response"
Judson Berger, FoxNews.com (August 24, 2011)
"Catholic churches damaged in northeast US quake"
Kevin J. Jones, CNA (Catholic News Agency) (August 24, 2011)
"Cathedral damage means King ceremony to relocate"
Sam Hananel, Associated Press, via Houston Chronicle (August 24, 2011)
Background:
"Magnitude 5.8 - VIRGINIA"
Earthquake Hazards Program, USGS (2011 August 23 17:51:04 UTC)
Washington National CathedralCathedral Shaken by Earthquake

1 The 'Bill of Rights,' as first ratified in 1791, starts this way:"Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances."
(Bill of Rights Transcript Text," archives.gov)There's an interesting discussion of 'the establishment clause' on Cornell's Law School's website:"First Amendment"LII / Legal Information Institute, Cornell University Law School
2 That 'freedom of speech' thing represents an American ideal: one which is followed to a remarkable extent. With exceptions. I remember the trailing edge of McCarthyism, which is one reason I do not want a return to 'the Good Old Days.'

These days another batch of zealots is over-represented (my opinion) in the federal government. I've harangued about that before:""Disagreement" is not 'Treason,' 'Protest' is not 'Terrorism' "
(April 19, 2011)
"'Rush Limbaugh Shot Giffords!?' Opinion Polls, Tuscon, and Loughner's Mind"
(January 12, 2011)
"Reason, Faith and 'What Folks Know, that Just Ain't So' "
(June 4, 2010)
ParticularlyWhat 'Everybody Knows' Ain't Always So

"Home Schooling: It May Not be What You Think"
(May 20, 2010)
"Pro-Life People - 'Domestic Terrorists and Violent Racketeers:' Who Knew?"
(June 1, 2009)
"The Right to Peaceful Assembly: As Long as the Government Approves"
(May 28, 2009)
3 This fellow says he's got "the first accurate, documented history of 911" - and he could be right. What I read agrees pretty much with what I remember:"History of 911"
Dispatch Magazine Online





Posted by
Brian Gill


at
11:59 PM














Email This

BlogThis!

Share to Twitter

Share to Facebook

Share to Google Buzz




Labels:
America,
charity,
common sense








2
comments:
        







Brigid
said...



Missing a bullet point at the beginning of this line: "Technology that hasn't stopped changing"Plural agreement: "at least a few bombastically 'Biblical' bag of balderdash."The Friendly Neighborhood ProofreaderP.S. So *that's* what set off the bells in the Science Museum. They have this cool system of metal pipes set to different notes corresponding to different geographical areas of the world. Usually they're set to a sort of 'screen saver,' a random tone every minute or so as a reminder that the earth's crust is always moving. But when there's an earthquake anywhere in the world, the corresponding bells go off. I was just coming out of the Collections Gallery when I heard this cacophony from them.





August 25, 2011 11:48 AM












Brian Gill
said...



Brigid,Found, fixed, thanks!And - yep, sounds like the Virginia quake is what set off those Science Museum bells. It was a big one.





August 26, 2011 6:47 PM













Post a Comment
Thank you for taking the time to comment!























Newer Post


Older Post

Home




Subscribe to:
Post Comments (Atom)



















("Following" list moved here, after Blogger changed formats)











Following "A Catholic CItizen in America:"






















Blogroll/Catholic Links

I've moved Blogroll/Catholic Links.

The sections and links are the same:Official Catholic WebsitesOther Catholic Websites and Blogs
Blogs
Organizations
Media
Something Else











Legal Stuff

Unless otherwise noted, material in my blogs is copyright © 2007-present by Brian H. Gill. All rights reserved. It may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or part without express written permission. Fair use is permitted, including short quotations, links, and extracts used in search engines.











Disclaimers

The opinions expressed in this blog are my own. As a Catholic layman, I make an effort to be informed about the teachings of the Church, and will repeat what I have found. For more 'official' statements, I suggest that you talk to a priest or deacon in your area. Or, check out the "Official Catholic Websites" on the Blogroll/Catholic Links page. Although I make an effort to select meaningful and qualified information for the external links I create, I have no control over content on websites or blogs other than mine, and cannot be held responsible for their contents. I have limited control over the advertisements and video links appearing on this blog. I do not necessarily endorse any of them. 
























Popular Posts




About the Knights of Columbus, Charity, Food, and Miracles
I'm not among the people who, consciously or not, assume that simply throwing money at a problem solves the problem.  On the other hand, wit...





Courtney Nash, Organ Transplants, and Bingo
A teenager in Florida died this weekend, from amoebic meningitis. Her mother says it was a "freak accident," 1  and I'm inclined to agree. H...





Leiby Kletzky's Murder; Prayer; Facts; and Assumptions
On Monday, July 11, Leiby Kletzky, age eight, missed a turn on what was supposed to be a solo walk of a few blocks, roughly a half-mile, in ...





Statue of Saint Rita of Cascia, Biggest Catholic Statue, Unveiled Today
Santa Cruz, Brazil, is in the international news today. If you know where to look: " World's largest Catholic statue to be unveiled in Brazi...





Apparition of Mary, Champion, Wisconsin: A Pilgrimage? Not for Me
Mary, mother of Jesus, appeared to Sister Adele Brise in 1859.   At least, that's what folks in the Champion, Wisconsin, area have been sayi...




































    Custom Search
  












Links to the Vatican, USCCB

The Holy See(vatican.va)United States Conference of Catholic Bishops (USCCB)(usccb.org)











We Call them Homilies

Reflections from Our Lady of the Angels Church











Pages


Home
About Me and This Blog
Blogroll/Catholic Links
Catholic Symbols, Customs, Worship and Veneration
Odd Words and Ideas in This Blog
Pedophile Priests, Ephebophilia, and Facing Facts
Praying for America and America's Leaders
Science, Religion, and being Catholic
What do I Really Feel About [___]
Why I Became a Catholic












Who's This 'Catholic Citizen?'

About Me and This Blog











My Top Topics

The Label Cloud displays frequently-discussed topics in this blog.
I've also 'spotlighted' a few posts.











Your Favorite Posts

Popular Posts: Links to the most-visited posts in this blog.












Subscribe To Catholic Citizen







Posts
















                Atom
              










Posts












Comments
















                Atom
              










Comments



















Advertisements on a Catholic's Blog?

Like most Americans, I've got bills to pay. If the ads bother you: please, ignore them. They reflect local norms, not Catholic teaching.












 Check out their combined feed, below. Or, not.











Following "A Catholic Citizen in America"

See who's following this blog, below.











Twitterers: Take Note

On Twitter, I'm 
 Aluwir











Brian H. Gill: Google Profile

BrianHGillMinnesota includes links to more blogs, photos and art.











Guest Posts

•"Reflections from Sauk Centre's Our Lady of the Angels Church" •"Migori, Kenya, and Sauk Centre, Minnesota: Pencils, Partnership and Prayer" 
(July 19, 2009) •"Experiences in Homa Bay" 
(October 24, 2004: reposted July 19, 2009) 

























Lenten Chaplet



























Marian Apparition: Champion, Wisconsin

Posts in this blog:"Apparition of Mary, Champion, Wisconsin: A Pilgrimage? Not for Me"
(April 10, 2011)"Wisconsin Apparitions Okay: Champion, Wisconsin: Not Necedah"
(December 8, 2010)
In the news:
"Wisconsin chapel approved as first US Marian apparition site"
Benjamin Mann, CNA (Catholic News Agency) (December 9, 2010)

Background:
"Worthy of belief"
Diocese of Green Bay, Wisconsin

"Directory on Popular Piety and the Liturgy. Principles and Guidelines,"
15; Congregation for Divine Worship and the Discipline of the Sacraments, Vatican City (December 2001)
Catechism of the Catholic Church on:Life as a pilgrimage, 1013
Pilgrimages and prayer, 2691










































Posts in the Spotlight


•"We Won: Quite a While Ago"
(January 13, 2011)
•" 'Just Routine: Nothing Special' - a Priest in a Small Town"
(April 30, 2010)
•"The Catholic Church: Universal. Really"
(April 19, 2010)
•"Bikinis, Burkinis, and Modesty: The Other Guy isn't Always Wrong" 
(August 16, 2009)
•"Fear of Right-Wing Extremism: Commie-Hunting in Reverse" 
(April 19, 2009) 
•"Conservative? Liberal? Democrat? Republican? No, I'm Catholic" (November 3, 2008) •"Earthquake in Ziarat: I Have to Care" (October 29, 2008) 






































Label Cloud


abortion


action


Adoration Chapel


Advent


Afghanistan


Africa


America


angels


animals


annulment


Antichrist


apparitions


art


assumptions


Australia


authority


baptism


beliefs


bias


Bible


bioethics


blogs


Brazil


business


Canada


capital punishment


Catechism


Catholic Church


Catholicism


charity


Chile


Christianity


Christmas


citizenship


clones


common sense


Communion


community


conscience


conversion


crucifix


Cuba


culture


dance


death


devotion


Divine Mercy


divorce


domestic church


duty


Easter


economics


education


elections


emotions


England


entertainment


environmental issues


ethics


ethnic


Eucharist


Europe


evangelizing


evolution


faith


family


forgiveness


free will


freedom


fun


global


God


God's will


government


Haiti


Halloween


hate


health


Heaven


Hell


history


holidays


Holy Family


Holy See


Holy Spirit


home


home schooling


hope


humor


images


Incarnation


India


Internet


Iraq


Ireland


Israel


Italy


Japan


Jesus


John Paul II


joy


justice


Kansas


Kenya


Knights of Columbus


Korea


language


last things


law


learning


Lent


Lenten Chaplet


life issues


love


Magisterium


marriage


Mary


Mass


materialism


media


medicine


Memorial Day


Mexico


Minnesota


miracles


Missouri


moderation


modesty


Mother Teresa of Calcutta


movies


music


Muslims


natural law


neighbor


New Zealand


news


Oceania


organization


original sin


parish


Parousia


penance


Pentecost


Philippines


pilgrimage


politics


Pope


poverty


prayer


priests


prophets


Providence


purpose


quotes


reason


reflections


relics


religion


religious freedom


repentance


resurrection


revenge


Roman Missal Third Edition


rosaries


Sacraments


saints


salvation


schools


science


sex


shrines


sin


South Sudan


Spain


spirituality


stem cell research


storm


Sudan


suicide


Sunday Obligation


symbols


technology


the human condition


tolerance


Tradition


traffic


Transubstantiation


travel


Trinity


trust


truth


uncertainty


United Kingdom


vacation


Vatican II


veneration


vengeance


videos


virtue


voting


war


wealth


wisdom


work


worship


writing













 












• Yes, I've got a blogroll.











Caritas in Veritate, Charity in Truth: It's Kind of a Big Deal

Online English translation: "Encyclical Letter Caritas in Veritate, of the Supreme Pontiff 
Benedict XVI, The Vatican (June 29, 2009) An introduction, and links to my posts about Caritas in Veritate: "Caritas in Veritate, Charity in Truth, Link Page " 
























What's That Doing in a Nice Catholic Blog?

From time to time, a service that I use will display links to - odd - services and retailers.

A word of advice: psychic anything, numerology, mediums, and related practices are on the no-no list for Catholics.

It has to do with the Church's stand on divination.

Bottom line? What that service displays reflects the local culture's norms, - not Catholic teaching.











Praying for America's Leaders

No pressure, but praying for America's leaders seems like a good idea. Praying for America's Leaders" 
(July 2, 2009) Short overview and links  "Praying for America and America's Leaders: Think About it "Praying for America's Governors and Other Executives" 











Gallimaufry of Links

Look me up on 
flockNote:
Aluwir
Mr. Tweet:
Brian Gill / Aluwir

Tweetfeed:
Norski

I'm listed on
Tweet Catholic:
tweetcatholic.com











Like it? Click it!

Add to Technorati Favorites











Blog Archive






▼ 

2011
(254)





          ► 
        


September
(5)

Loving Neighbors: Even the One Who Stole Our Gospe...
What I Believe, Where I Stand
Separation of Church and State, Assumptions, and F...
Space Aliens, Michele Bachmann, and Daft Assumptio...
New York Times Editor, Religion, and Politics: Ben...






▼ 

August
(29)

Humans are Animals: But Not Just Animals
Hippies, Prudes, Catholics, and Sex
What Hurricane Irene Doesn't Mean, and Prayer
22nd Sunday in Ordinary Time 2011
An Eternal Life I can Live With
Irene, New York City, and Altruism as Enlightened ...
Two Thousand Years of the Great Commission, and So...
Virginia Earthquake: Cracked Cathedral, No Deaths,...
World Youth Day Madrid, Pope Moved to Tears, Emoti...
New Hungarian Constitution: Good News from a Forme...
World Youth Day Madrid, 9/11, and an Imperfect Wor...
World Youth Day Madrid, and Living in an Imperfect...
World Youth Day Madrid: Shocking Extravagance; or ...
Abram's Domestic Dispute, Three Dozen Centuries La...
Courtney Nash, Organ Transplants, and Bingo
Religious Freedom, a Spanish Archbishop, and Pew R...
Hummingbirds, Deuteronomy, Morality, and Getting a...
A Nerdy Interest in God and his Creation?
Sex Selection, Newspeak, and Getting a Grip
America's Economy Isn't Doomed?!
Drought, Ethiopia, Texas, and Charity
It's "Love Your Neighbor," Not "Alienate Your Neig...
God Kept Me From Going to Mass?!
Catholicism, Diversity, and Star Fleet
"We are Parthians, Medes, and Elamites..."
Timothy, Amos, Money, and Getting a Grip
Catholic Bookstores, Choices, and Reasons
Catholic Marketing Network Trade Show, Labels, and...
Trade Show Preparation: Is Work Important?








          ► 
        


July
(32)

Assumptions, Bible Verses, and a Little Research
On the Road to the Trade Show: Schedules, Attendee...
On the Road to the Trade Show: Accident in Indiana...
Trade Show in Pennsylvania, Ecclesiastes, Software...
Oslo, Utoya, and Assumptions: Norwegian Tragedy as...
Abandoning the Path of Hatred? Sounds Like a Plan
Oslo, the Island of Utoya: and Living in a Big Wor...
The Threat of People Who Aren't Just Like Us?
Chauvinism Knows No Borders
Oslo, Dead Bodies, Love, Hate, and Getting a Grip
Government Shutdowns, Credit Card Debt, and Common...
Leiby Kletzky's Murder, Gossip, Information, Evil,...
Gregor Mendel: Friar, Scientist, and Abbot
Being Catholic - and Christian - and American
Drought, Starvation, Death, Request for Help - But...
Politics, Headlines, Bachmann, and 'Those Catholic...








          ► 
        


June
(31)







          ► 
        


May
(37)







          ► 
        


April
(36)







          ► 
        


March
(45)







          ► 
        


February
(21)







          ► 
        


January
(18)









          ► 
        


2010
(434)





          ► 
        


December
(30)







          ► 
        


November
(38)







          ► 
        


October
(32)







          ► 
        


September
(32)







          ► 
        


August
(45)







          ► 
        


July
(42)







          ► 
        


June
(44)







          ► 
        


May
(40)







          ► 
        


April
(60)







          ► 
        


March
(16)







          ► 
        


February
(26)







          ► 
        


January
(29)









          ► 
        


2009
(247)





          ► 
        


December
(15)







          ► 
        


November
(17)







          ► 
        


October
(21)







          ► 
        


September
(13)







          ► 
        


August
(23)







          ► 
        


July
(32)







          ► 
        


June
(29)







          ► 
        


May
(29)







          ► 
        


April
(25)







          ► 
        


March
(30)







          ► 
        


February
(8)







          ► 
        


January
(5)









          ► 
        


2008
(31)





          ► 
        


December
(4)







          ► 
        


November
(16)







          ► 
        


October
(5)







          ► 
        


September
(6)









          ► 
        


2007
(1)





          ► 
        


October
(1)

















About Me





Brian Gill


I'm a fifty-something married guy with four kids in a small central Minnesota town. One of the kids graduated from college in December, 2008, and got married in September, 2009. Another has graduated from a technical school. I focused on a few topics for my Google profile's "Interests" section, but I'm fascinated by three things: that which exists within the universe; that which exists beyond; and that which might exist.

View my complete profile











Thanks for Visiting

The video, news, ads, or information below may be interesting. It may even be useful. But I didn't create it. More, in my disclaimers.













 








































Submitted to BlogCatalog.com
















