Niraali     (Youth Newsviews): 5.8 Virginia earthquake shakes east coast, rattles residents



























































Niraali     (Youth Newsviews)



Developments around the world from different sources with links to their original source.








































































































23 August 2011





5.8 Virginia earthquake shakes east coast, rattles residents





The Washington Post He said it is unlikely that the 5.8-magnitude quake was a foreshock of a stronger tremor because it was near the limit of what has been experienced in this region of Virginia. The last Virginia quake of this intensity was in 1897, a tremor felt as far south as Georgia and as far west as Indiana.
“In terms of energy release, a fairly run-of-the-mill earthquake,” USGS Director Marcia McNutt wrote in an e-mail, “but because the rocks along the East coast do such a superior job of transmitting seismic energy without dissipating it, the tremor was widely felt. “




at
8:50 PM












Email This

BlogThis!

Share to Twitter

Share to Facebook

Share to Google Buzz










0
comments:
        








Post a Comment



















Newer Post


Older Post

Home




Subscribe to:
Post Comments (Atom)































Popular Posts




After HP TouchPad: The PC Isn't Dying -- It's Evolving
TIME 
 Research firm IDC estimates that 361.5 million PCs will sell worldwide this year and that the number will increase to 541.5 million i...





China unveils 2011 list of top 500 companies
news.xinhuanet.com 
 The Sinopec Group was ranked first, with last year's revenues reaching 1.97 trillion yuan (307.81 billion U.S. dollars)...





Tablet computers: Difference Engine: Reality dawns
The Economist 
 What exists instead is a rip-roaring market for iPads. Tablets based on Google’s Android, Hewlett-Packard’s webOS, Microsoft...





With new tablets, Sony takes aim at iPad in Japan
alarabiya.net 
 The Japanese electronics and entertainment giant unveiled its first tablets to the rest of the world Wednesday, diving into ...





In Libya, Captured Loyalist Says Qaddafi ‘Gave Us Dignity’
NYTimes.com 
 Many remember that when Colonel Qaddafi took power in 1969 Libya was a poor and almost entirely undeveloped nation of Bedouin ...





Hurricane Irene: It’s the rain
The Washington Post 
 In New Jersey, the Raritan River swelled 13.9 feet above flood stage. In Vermont, the Winooski River surpassed flood s...





IT specialists go extinct in Russia?
Voice of Russia 
 The international IDS research company predicts that by 2015 the cloud computing market will soar by three times to earn $...





Mel Gibson to pay out $750K to ex-girlfriend
The Washington Post 
 That’s the last anybody will have to, or even be able to, hear from either of them about the matter. Also under the de...





Typhoon Talas slams into western Japan
Channel NewsAsia 
 The meteorological agency has issued a warning of floods and landslides to residents in western Japan, where heavy rainfa...





U.S. southern states on heightened alert for Tropical Storm Lee
news.xinhuanet.com 
 The center of the Lee was expected to make landfall on the coast of Louisiana this weekend. It was already causing heav...





























Search This Blog


Loading...













Follow by Email











































My Blog List









juganoo (India)




Mining czar Reddy arrested; sent to 14-day custody


                      -
                    

Hindustan Times
More than 30 kg of gold and Rs 1.5 crore in cash was found by the Central 
Bureau of Investigation in a swift, secret, early morning raid, th...











harkaras (News)




Gadhafi's Ukrainian nurse talks about life with 'Daddy'


                      -
                    

CNN.com
All of what was being said about Gadhafi seemed contrary to what she knew 
about the man -- including the allegations by Gadhafi family nannies and 
...


















Blog Archive






▼ 

2011
(1818)


September
(50)




August
(333)




July
(292)




June
(331)




May
(291)




April
(220)




March
(199)




February
(102)






























Total Pageviews















Pages


Home














































































































































































































Simple template. Powered by Blogger.
































