Avian Flu Diary









Avian Flu Diary



Covering Pandemic and Seasonal Influenza, H5N1 `Bird Flu, Emerging Infectious Diseases, public health, community & Individual preparedness, and anything else that piques my admittedly eclectic interests












Monday, September 05, 2011





Pennsylvania Reports 2 More Novel Flu Cases





    # 5814     In a press release this afternoon the Pennsylvania Health Department has announced the detection of two more novel swine flu infections among recent visitors to a county fair held in the southwestern part of the state.    This comes on the heels of the announcement on Friday in the CDC’s MMWR of two novel flu infections from a reassortant swine H3N2 virus that contained a gene segment from the H1N1 swine flu virus.     In that announcement we were told of one case in Pennsylvania and another case in Indiana, both of whom had recovered.  All of the cases so far have involved children.    Today’s development will no doubt inspire intense state and federal epidemiological investigations to see if this new strain of flu has acquired the ability to spread efficiently from human to human.    So far, these appear to be isolated infections with no evidence of secondary transmission of the virus in Pennsylvania, although there are indications that may have occurred in the one case from Indiana.          Novel Influenza-A Cases Linked to County Fair; Pennsylvanians Should Continue Flu Prevention Practices and Report Flu-like Illness  HARRISBURG, Pa., Sept. 5, 2011 /PRNewswire/ -- The Pennsylvania departments of Health and Agriculture today announced three cases of a novel influenza A virus have been identified, and are now linked to an agricultural fair in southwestern Pennsylvania.   The first individual to become ill, announced on Friday, Sept. 2, has fully recovered from the illness. Two other individuals, confirmed ill over the weekend, are recovering. All three are children who reported attending the Washington County Agricultural Fair the week of Aug. 13-20, 2011.   The cases in Pennsylvania are similar to previous, rare human infections with swine-origin H3N2 viruses, but are unique in that they contain a genetic component of the H1N1 virus.   A continuing investigation, which is being jointly undertaken by the departments of Health and Agriculture, as well as the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), has not yet uncovered how the illness was transmitted to the three individuals.  However, no additional human infections with this virus have been identified to date.   Anyone who attended the Washington County Fair and has flu-like symptoms should contact their local health care provider or call 1-877-PA-HEALTH. Symptoms would be similar to that of seasonal influenza, and would include fever, lethargy (extreme tiredness), lack of appetite and coughing. Other influenza symptoms may include a runny nose, sore throat, eye irritation, nausea, vomiting and diarrhea.   The Department of Health and the CDC are conducting increased surveillance and tracking in southwestern Pennsylvania, as well as setting up informational booths about influenza at agricultural fairs, while Department of Agriculture is continuing with monitoring the health of animals at all exhibitions.   The Department of Health continues to urge the public to take everyday precautions to prevent the spread of respiratory viruses, while the Department of Agriculture reminds residents to remember to wash your hands after coming into contact with animals at fairs and in other public venues.   "We're not telling people to avoid public venues or fairs," said Pennsylvania DOH Secretary Dr. Eli Avila. "But, until we complete our investigation, we want to make sure that the public is aware and is taking the proper precautions to protect their health."   Everyday preventative actions against influenza include:  Coughing or sneezing into a tissue, your sleeve or elbow (not your hands);    Washing your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds, especially after you cough or sneeze, or using an alcohol-based hand cleaner;  Keeping your hands away from your face – don't touch your mouth, hands or eyes;  Keeping frequently used surfaces clean; and  Staying home from work, school, and social gatherings if you have flu-like and feverish symptoms to help prevent others from catching your illness.  For more information, visit www.health.state.pa.us or call 1-877-PA-HEALTH. 




Posted by
Michael Coston


at
1:40 PM


0
comments









Links to this post



Labels:
Novel H3N2,
reassortment











NPM11: Creating A Family Communications Plan





     Note: This is day 5 of National Preparedness Month.  Follow this year’s campaign on Twitter by searching for the #NPM11 hash tag.   This month, as part of NPM11, I’ll be rerunning some edited and updated older preparedness essays, along with some new ones.       # 5813     Those of us who were living in Florida during the `bad old days’ of the cold war remember well the Cuban Missile Crisis of 1962.    Although it is hard to imagine it today, much of Florida was on a war footing with fears of a nuclear attack that might come at any time, thousands of military streaming into the state, and schools running daily `duck & cover’ and emergency evacuation exercises.    Kids were sent home with civil defense pamphlets on the basics of radiation poisoning and how to build an in-home fallout shelter.       As an 8-year-old with a scientific bent, these were exciting times.     What I didn’t full appreciate at the time was my parents were faced with an agonizing dilemma. My twin-brother and I attended a nearby elementary school, while my 17-year old sister attended high school some distance away.    If the alert went up, they realized they might only have time to get to one school to pick up their kids.    Logic dictated that the pick up my brother and I, based on our ages, and the fact that there were two of us. My sister was given instructions to go to the home of one of her high school friends, and our folks would  either contact her or pick her up there.    Nearly 50 years ago, in the face of a potential crisis, my family cobbled together their own emergency communications plan including an alternate rendezvous point.    While a nuclear attack is (thankfully) far less likely today, the same principles hold true when it comes to having a communications plan, and a meet-up point.   And since a tornado, earthquake, house fire, or some other disaster can strike without warning . . .  these are the sorts of plans every family needs to make now.   Before they are needed.   Luckily FEMA and READY.GOV have made things a bit easier today.  They’ve developed a Family Emergency Communications Kit, which can be downloaded free from the net.     With just a few minutes effort, you can have your own emergency communications plan and emergency meeting place set up.     Family Communications     Your family may not be together when disaster strikes, so plan how you will contact one another. Think about how you will communicate in different situations.   Complete a contact card for each family member. Have family members keep these cards handy in a wallet, purse, backpack, etc. You may want to send one to school with each child to keep on file. Pick a friend or relative who lives out-of-state for household members to notify they are safe.   Family Communications Plan which should be completed and posted so the contact information is readily accessible to all family members. A copy should also be included in your family disaster supplies kit.   Appendix C of the Are You Ready? Guide (contains blank contact cards and a family communications plan form)    You’ll find the Ready.gov version of the kit available HERE.




Posted by
Michael Coston


at
8:02 AM


0
comments









Links to this post



Labels:
Communications,
FEMA,
NPM11,
plan,
Ready.Gov









Sunday, September 04, 2011





M Is For Mutation





      # 5812     I usually try to avoid using the word `Mutant’ or `Mutation’ in my blog titles about flu because, strictly speaking . . .     All influenza viruses are the product of mutation.     Flu viruses are inherently unstable (in particularly, influenza A), and are constantly evolving and changing. Mutating. Which explains why scientists must adjust the flu vaccine nearly every year.    Of course, the media loves the word `Mutation’ – I suspect because it conjures up vivid images in the minds of their readers. And to the public, mutations are almost universally perceived as `bad’.     Earlier this week we saw a plethora of `Mutant’ headlines, including:    New bird flu virus mutation threatens Vietnam -Thanh Nien Daily No vaccine yet for mutant bird flu ...  - The Straits Times Mutant Bird-Flu Strain Spreads in Asia - The Daily Beast Mutant bird flu strain in Asia prompts call for scrutiny - MSNBC       While the emergence of this (relatively) new strain of H5N1 is a big story, so far we’ve seen no evidence to suggest that this `mutation’ poses any greater threat to humans than do any of the other dozen or so clades of the bird flu virus.     But that isn’t the sort of lede that sells newspapers.     Since the `M’ word seems to be on the lips of many people this week, today seems like a good day to go over how influenza viruses mutate.     Don’t worry.     I’ll keep this layman simple, mostly so I – a non-scientist - can understand it.  Real scientists, however, may wish to avert their eyes.     The genetic sequence of the influenza virus can be represented by a chain of letters identifying the hundreds of amino acids that make up the viral genome.    A tiny sub-section of that chain might have an amino acid sequence that looks something like:    MKAILVVMLYTFATA    As the virus inhabits a cell, and begins to replicate, it makes thousands of copies of itself which then burst out of the cell after a few hours and go on to infect other cells.     Those cells, in turn, make copies that go forth to infect more cells and repeat the process.     But being a single-strand RNA virus, the influenza virus tends to be sloppy in making copies of itself. As it replicates millions of times, tiny errors sometimes creep in. If in the process of making copies it mixes up just a single amino acid, we can end up with a mutated virus.    MKAILVVMLYTFATA MKAILVVMLYTFATA MKAIFVVMLYTFATA      -  Voila! A mutation MKAIFVVMLYTFATA MKAIFVVMLYTFATA     Above, I’ve swapped out the amino acid leucine (L) at position 5 for phenylalanine (F), simulating a replication error. Assuming the result is a `biologically fit’ and competitive virus (most aren’t), then it may go on to infect other cells, and conceivably, other hosts.   Of course, that doesn’t mean it will make the virus more dangerous.  A mutation can make the virus less virulent or less transmissible.   Or it may simply have no effect at all.     These small mutations in the virus are called drift, and over time the flu virus can accumulate enough changes so that last year’s vaccine is no longer effective.      And that is essentially the story behind this new 2.3.2.1 clade of the H5N1 virus. Enough antigenic changes have accumulated in its genome to allow it to evade the poultry vaccines currently in use.      Of course, mutations like these are also capable of bringing about other changes, including antiviral resistance, or perhaps increasing the virulence or transmissibility of the virus.     So while not necessarily alarming, this week’s bird flu news is certainly worthy of our attention.    Bigger changes in the influenza virus generally come about through a process known as reassortment or shift.     Reassorted viruses can result when two different flu strains inhabit the same host (human or otherwise) at the same time. Under the right conditions, they can swap one or more gene segments and produce a hybrid virus.          While far less common than drift, shift can produce dramatic changes in how a virus behaves, and has been responsible for the creation of pandemic viruses in the past.      Again this week, we’ve received news of a pair of `reassortant’ swine H3N2 flu viruses detected in children from two different states (see MMWR: Swine-Origin Influenza A (H3N2) Virus Infection in Two Children).      For those of us who were covering the earliest reports of a novel swine flu outbreak in April of 2009, this week’s report admittedly has a tinge of deja flu.     But it is important to remember that over the past 5 years (excluding the 2009 H1N1 virus) nearly 2 dozen similar novel swine flu viruses have been detected across the country. It is also probable that a number of other novel infections have escaped notice – yet so far none has been shown to spread efficiently from human-to-human.    That could change, of course - as each reassortant is  a new roll of the genetic dice - and so the CDC quite understandably is encouraging enhanced local flu surveillance, and would mount a vigorous response if more cases were to start to appear.      Flu viruses have been quietly mutating and reassorting for thousands of years, but only rarely does that result in a pandemic strain. The vast majority of these mutations end up in evolution’s dustbin.    Even though we don’t always know what they signify, today we have the surveillance tools that enable us to watch some of these genetic changes when they start to appear.      And while that means we are likely to hear about a lot of potential viral threats that never materialize, it also means we may get some invaluable advance warning about the next pandemic virus before it strikes.  




Posted by
Michael Coston


at
12:51 PM


1 comments









Links to this post



Labels:
antigenic drift,
H3N2,
H5N1,
Influenza,
reassortment











NPM11: A Simple Weekend Flu Prep





        Note: This is day 4 of National Preparedness Month.  Follow this year’s campaign on Twitter by searching for the #NPM11 hash tag.       This month, as part of NPM11, I’ll be rerunning some edited and updated older preparedness essays, along with some new ones.       # 5811     With this year’s flu season just around the corner, and on the heels of this week’s exotic flu news (see FAO Warns On Bird Flu & CIDRAP On Today’s Reassorted Swine Flu Story), today seems like a good day to rerun this simple flu-related prepping advice.   Being prepared is a habit, one that takes time (and practice) to establish. Even though I consider myself reasonably ready for most emergencies, I have – on occasion – been caught less than prepared.    The single best flu-related prep is undoubtedly getting your flu vaccination each and every year.    Flu Vaccines have an excellent safety record, and are now recommended for nearly everyone over the age of 6 months. While it may not protect against every type of respiratory infection, most years it proves effective against the most dangerous flu strains in circulation.    But even when you get the shot, it is possible to be felled by a sudden illness.     One night about 4 years ago I felt a bit unwell (feverish and tired) and laid down. The next 24 hours were lost in a feverish delirium as I came down with some kind of a  brief, but debilitating, illness.   Although the bathroom and kitchen were but a few steps away, I was too weak, and too delirious, to even fetch myself a glass of water. My cell phone was in its charger in the living room, so I couldn’t call for help.    I remember laying there knowing I should be taking some acetaminophen to quell the fever and forcing fluids . . . but I was simply unable to do so.    Luckily, I recovered enough that the next evening I was able to get up and rehydrate myself.  A few days later, I was almost human again.   I, like millions of others, live alone.   And those of us without an in-house support system (and particularly single parents raising small children) need to take extra steps to prepare for this sort of event.    Since that long night’s journey into the next day, I’ve made two simple changes.    First, I’ve moved my cell phone charger to my beside table. My phone now goes with me when I retire at night, that way I can call for help if ever the need arises.   Second, I made a simple under-the-bed flu kit.    In it, I’ve got:    A couple of pouch Sports drinks (rehydration) A bottle of acetaminophen A bottle of expectorant pills Imodium pills A thermometer Throat lozenges  Surgical masks for me to wear in case I have to call for help or have visitors.  All of which fits in a small plastic box.   Any small container would do.       And of course, my cell phone is now kept close at hand.   It’s a simple prep.  One that I put together with things I already had around the house and in my medicine cabinet. But having preps is pretty much useless if you can’t get to them when you need them.   Since then, I’ve had one occasion to use this `flu box’, although I wasn’t anywhere nearly as incapacitated as I was 3 years ago.   It was more of a `flu comfort kit’ than an emergency prep.    It did, however, serve as a reminder to replace the soon-to-be-expired sports drinks.    Putting together a little flu kit like this may seem like too insignificant of a prep to bother with, but believe me, I wish I’d thought of it before I needed it.




Posted by
Michael Coston


at
8:16 AM


0
comments









Links to this post



Labels:
Flu,
NPM11,
Preparedness









Saturday, September 03, 2011





NPM11: The Ethics Of Preparation





       Note: This is day 3 of National Preparedness Month.  Follow this year’s campaign on Twitter by searching for the #NPM11 hash tag.     This month, as part of NPM11, I’ll be rerunning some edited and updated older preparedness essays, along with some new ones.           # 5810      Over the years - when talking about emergency preparedness - a few people I’ve met have felt that it was somehow unfair, or even unethical, for those with greater financial means to prepare for disasters while those with fewer resources are be unable to do so.    A noble and egalitarian sounding idea, I suppose.    But the reality is that when more people are prepared before a crisis, fewer people will be competing for finite and sometimes slow-to-arrive emergency assistance in the days following a disaster.    And when you as an individual, family, or business are prepared, you are in a better position to offer help to friends, neighbors, relatives, or your community.    Which makes prepping not only ethical, but extremely practical as well.       And it isn’t just me saying that.   In October, 2008 I wrote a blog which highlighted the John's Hopkins Study entitled Ethics and Severe Pandemic Influenza: Maintaining Essential Functions through a Fair and Considered Response.   It included the following snippet from the summary provided on  the Johns Hopkins Berman Institute of Bioethics website.    . . .  individuals and families who can afford it should do their best to prepare for any disaster. The paper notes, the more initiative the general public exercises in stockpiling several weeks' worth of food, water, paper goods, batteries medicines, and other needed supplies, the less vulnerable they will be to a break in the supply chain.   It is important for leaders to communicate to the middle class and the wealthy that it is their responsibility to prepare for self-sufficiency in order to free up scarce supplies and allow first responders to direct their attention towards those too poor or vulnerable to prepare themselves.     While this may not have been the main thrust of this paper's message, it is a powerful component. One that bloggers such as myself have been trying to promote for several years.   As long as our supply chains are intact, grocery store shelves are full and capable of being restocked, and no major shortages exist it is not hoarding, selfish, or unethical to be stockpiling a reasonable amount of emergency supplies for you, your family, and others you might be able to assist during a disaster.   During a crisis, relief agencies will have their hands full trying to help those who were unable to prepare, or who lost their preps due to a disaster.    By being prepared in advance, you take some of that burden off these agencies, which will allow them to concentrate their efforts on helping those less able to help themselves.   And by being prepared, you are in a better position to help others as well.    And that’s a win-win situation. For you, your family, and your whole community.   The American Red Cross sponsors a Do More Than Cross Your Fingers preparedness campaign. Spokesperson Jamie Lee Curtis has made a video that can get you started.     You can also follow the Red Cross on Twitter by subscribing to @RedCross.    While 72 hours is considered the minimum amount of  time for which you and your family should be prepared, there is nothing that says you shouldn’t strive to do better than that.    A week or more of emergency supplies is a laudable, and easily obtainable, goal.      The Red Cross isn’t alone in promoting disaster preparedness. Over the past decade, personal and community preparedness has become a national goal.   For more information, visit:    FEMA http://www.fema.gov/index.shtm READY.GOV http://www.ready.gov/    It’s really the ethical thing to do.




Posted by
Michael Coston


at
6:54 AM


0
comments









Links to this post



Labels:
Disaster,
Ethics,
NPM11,
Preparedness,
Red Cross









Friday, September 02, 2011





CIDRAP On Today’s Reassorted Swine Flu Story





     # 5809     Robert Roos, News Editor for CIDRAP has an excellent summary of today’s big story about two recent infections from a previously unseen novel swine flu virus (see MMWR: Two Novel trH3N2 Flu Infections and MMWR: Swine-Origin Influenza A (H3N2) Virus Infection in Two Children).   Roos also includes some comments from Lyn Finelli, DrPH, chief of the surveillance and outbreak response team in the CDC's influenza division and Andrew T. Pavia, MD, chief of the Division of Pediatric Infectious Diseases at the University of Utah in Salt Lake City.       Novel H3N2 swine flu viruses infected 2 children, CDC says Robert Roos  News Editor Sep 2, 2011 (CIDRAP News) – In separate instances, influenza A/H3N2 viruses circulating in swine picked up a gene from the pandemic 2009 H1N1 virus and recently infected two young children, one in Indiana and one in Pennsylvania, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) reported today.  Both of the children recovered, though one was briefly hospitalized, and there is no sign that the viruses spread from the children to others, but any evidence of ongoing transmission would require a rapid response, the CDC said.  The agency also said one of the children had no direct contact with pigs, which suggests he caught it from another person. Both children are under age 5.   (Continue . . . )    




Posted by
Michael Coston


at
7:31 PM


1 comments









Links to this post



Labels:
CDC,
CIDRAP,
Novel H3N2,
Swine flu












Older Posts

Home




Subscribe to:
Posts (Atom)























Latest CIDRAP News Scan
Today's Space Weather





























Quick Searches Of AFDCDC         CIDRAP Dengue         Egypt EIDs FEMA Flublogia H5N1  HHS  Indonesia Influenza NDM-1  NPM Prepare Referrals READY.GOV Research  Scarlet Fever Vaccines Vietnam WHO



























What Others Are Writing










The Pump Handle




A Labor Day Message from Secretary of Labor Solis


2 hours ago












Crof's H5N1




Trinidad and Tobago: Twelve market vendors fall ill with dengue


14 hours ago












virology blog




TWiV 147: Debugging dengue


1 day ago












Scott McPherson's Journal




"We just need to make sure that nobody knows, until everybody knows" -- 
enjoy these clips from "Contagion"


3 days ago












Maryn McKenna's » Superbug




Antibiotic Prescribing to Kids — Down, But Still Too Much


4 days ago












The Face of the Matter




The Media Is Not All The Same, Some Of Them Actually Care About You


4 days ago












Mystery Rays from Outer Space




Patients, pathogens, ecosystems


6 months ago


































Specialty News Gatherers










A TIME'S MEMORY













Arkanoid Legent













Bird Flu Information Corner













The Emergency Management Daily



















Most Popular Last 7  Days



Finland: Task Force Report On Pandemrix-Narcolepsy Link


FAO Warns On Bird Flu


Alaska: 7.1 Mag Quake, Local Tsunami Warning Issued


Referral: The Pandemic Of Vaccine Phobia


Historical Hurricane Tracks: Learning From History













AFD Email Link

















Subscribe To AFD







Posts
















                Atom
              










Posts












All Comments
















                Atom
              










All Comments



















Blog Archive




Blog Archive
Sep 2011 (16)
Aug 2011 (72)
Jul 2011 (64)
Jun 2011 (76)
May 2011 (56)
Apr 2011 (73)
Mar 2011 (114)
Feb 2011 (71)
Jan 2011 (80)
Dec 2010 (92)
Nov 2010 (82)
Oct 2010 (73)
Sep 2010 (95)
Aug 2010 (86)
Jul 2010 (81)
Jun 2010 (76)
May 2010 (71)
Apr 2010 (74)
Mar 2010 (74)
Feb 2010 (82)
Jan 2010 (101)
Dec 2009 (108)
Nov 2009 (182)
Oct 2009 (136)
Sep 2009 (102)
Aug 2009 (120)
Jul 2009 (151)
Jun 2009 (136)
May 2009 (180)
Apr 2009 (145)
Mar 2009 (113)
Feb 2009 (113)
Jan 2009 (124)
Dec 2008 (108)
Nov 2008 (69)
Oct 2008 (89)
Sep 2008 (76)
Aug 2008 (75)
Jul 2008 (87)
Jun 2008 (80)
May 2008 (99)
Apr 2008 (93)
Mar 2008 (115)
Feb 2008 (147)
Jan 2008 (162)
Dec 2007 (124)
Nov 2007 (95)
Oct 2007 (67)
Sep 2007 (42)
Aug 2007 (78)
Jul 2007 (75)
Jun 2007 (123)
May 2007 (110)
Apr 2007 (108)
Mar 2007 (92)
Feb 2007 (136)
Jan 2007 (119)
Dec 2006 (41)
Nov 2006 (34)
Oct 2006 (12)
Sep 2006 (13)
Aug 2006 (13)
Jul 2006 (16)
Jun 2006 (12)
May 2006 (21)
Apr 2006 (38)
Mar 2006 (27)
Feb 2006 (25)
Jan 2006 (18)















News & Analysis












AFD Medpedia Page











Follow





On Twitter











Public Health/Flu Blogs


FEMA Blog
Effect Measure (Archive)
NACCHO H1N1 Blog
Recombinomics
Davis Logic Emergency Mgt
Pandemic Information News
CARE: Whats New In the World of Pandemic and Avian flu?












Preparedness Websites


FEMA
Ready.gov
Public Health Emergency
Preparedness And Reponse
Students Prep America
Emergency Home Preparation
Break Glass (archive)
In Case of Emergency (Archive)












Pandemic/Public Health Links


US Govt Pandemic Flu Info
CIDRAP:Avian Flu (Website)
Flu Wiki Reference Site












Flu Forums


Flu Wiki
FluTrackers
Francophones des FluTrackers
Pandemic Flu Information (PFI)
Plan For Pandemic












Pandemic Information Sites


American Red Cross
(APHA) Get Ready For Flu
CARE
Humanitarian Pandemic Preparedness H2P
Save The Children
STEPS Centre
STEPS-Centre Blog: The Crossing















In Case You Missed It


In An Emergency, Who Has Your Back?
AFD Editorial Policies
When Words Fail Us
None So Blind As Those Who Will Not Listen
An Appropriate Level Of Preparedness
It Isn't Just Swine Flu














My Review of SUPERBUG












BabelFish Universal Language Translator

















Resources & Toolkits


Healthmap.org
2Resilience.org
Nieman Foundation Guide For Journalists Covering Flu
Pandemic Toolkits: You Don't Have To Start From Scratch
Dr. Grattan Woodson's Home Treatment of Influenza
Dr. Michael Greger's Bird Flu Book
Peter Sandman - Risk Communications
HHS Pandemic Flu Toolkits
King Country Pandemic Comic Book
Readymom's Organization
CIDRAP's Public Health Practices












Twitter Feeds


APHA GetReady
FEMA
HHS Social Media
Flu.gov
Ready.gov
Red Cross
WHO News
Fla_Medic (Me)
AIDigest
FluTrackers












Non-Pandemic Blogs


Master Of My Public Domain
Have Banjo Will Travel
The Island Smallholder
Neuron Culture - David Dobbs
Spare Change Social Marketing Blog













Avian Flu Diary by Michael Coston is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-Noncommercial-Share Alike 3.0 United States License.











About Me





Michael Coston


Paramedic EMT-II (Ret.), Computer software designer, Building contractor, Cruising sailor, Humorist. . . obviously unable to hold a job.

View my complete profile











Site Meter
























To view older entries select  OLDER POSTS from the bottom of each page.  All essays by Michael Coston EMT-II (Ret.) unless otherwise stated.  Nothing in this blog should be construed as representing legal or medical advice.AFD  Avian Flu Diary Pandemic Influenza, H1N1 `Swine Flu', H5N1 `Bird Flu' and other Emerging Infectious Diseases















