Washington's BlogWashington's Blog







skip to main  |
      skip to sidebar






























Monday, September 5, 2011





There Are More Slaves Today Than At Any Point In Human History


More Slavery Exists Today Than Ever Before In HistoryYou would assume that - as messed up as things may be today - at least there is not widespread slavery, as in ancient Egypt or the American south.But as Time Magazine noted last year:Despite more than a dozen international conventions banning slavery in  the past 150 years, there are more slaves today than at any point in  human history. Slaves are those forced to perform services for no pay  beyond subsistence and for the profit of others who hold them through  fraud and violence. While most are held in debt bondage in the poorest  regions of South Asia, some are trafficked in the midst of thriving  development. To help fight slavery, read this and - more importantly - get involved here.And given that there are some who would like to put all of us in debt peonage, we should stand up for freedom and justice whenever and wherever you can. 




0
comments






























Despite The Ongoing Efforts To Cover Up The Scope Of The Disasters, New Videos Prove That All Is Not Well At Fukushima ... Or The BP Oil Spill Site


Despite the ongoing efforts to cover up the scope of the disasters, new videos prove that all is not well in Fukushima ... or the BP oil spill site.A strange flash was observed at the Fukushima nuclear power plant:And a new 10-mile oil slick was spotted in the area of BP gulf oil spill:




5
comments




























Sunday, September 4, 2011





Labor Day Has Been Rendered Completely Meaningless (Happy Serf Day)


 Labor Day ... Or Serf Day?As I noted in 2008:A highly-regarded economist (Michael Hudson, Distinguished Research  Professor at the University of Missouri, Kansas City, who has advised  the U.S., Canadian, Mexican and Latvian governments as well as the  United Nations Institute for Training and Research, and who is a former  Wall Street economist at Chase Manhattan Bank who also helped establish  the world’s first sovereign debt fund) said:"You  have to realize that what they’re trying to do is to roll back the  Enlightenment, roll back the moral philosophy and social values of  classical political economy and its culmination in Progressive Era  legislation, as well as the New Deal institutions. They’re not trying to  make the economy more equal, and they’re not trying to share power.  Their greed is (as Aristotle noted) infinite. So what you find to be a  violation of traditional values is a re-assertion of pre-industrial,  feudal values. The economy is being set back on the road to debt  peonage. The Road to Serfdom is not government sponsorship of economic  progress and rising living standards, it’s the dismantling of  government, the dissolution of regulatory agencies, to create a new  feudal-type elite."In 2009, Foreign Policy magazine ran an article entitled "The Next Big Thing: Neomedievalism",  arguing that the power of nations is declining, and being replaced by  corporations, wealthy individuals, the sovereign wealth funds of  monarchs, and city-regions.The Government Continues to Destroy Jobs ... Not Create Them Despite pretty words and psuedo-jobs programs, government policy is unrelentingly  destroying American jobs - instead of creating them - by:Encouraging companies to ship them abroad
Sending a large percentage of the funds for bailed out banks abroad
Encouraging mergersPaying banks to park their excess reserves, instead of deploying them as new loans to Main Street
Encouraging redistribution of wealth upwards to the top .1% wealthiest
Enacting policies which (1) turn a blind eye to Wall Street fraud, (2) prop up the too big to fail banks, asset prices and leverage at any cost, and (3) spend stimulus money on the military and huge Wall Street firms, instead of on average Americans
(And no, Obama is not being misadvised; he simply has different priorities from the average American).
Labor Day Has Been Rendered Completely Meaningless
As Mark Provost has points out - the rich love high unemployment.  Because all branches of government and the Federal Reserve are wholly captured by the top .1% (and see this, this and this), they are not very motivated to decrease unemployment.And as David Rosenberg notes:The  "labor share of national income has fallen to its lower level in modern  history ... some recovery it has been - a recovery in which labor's  share of the spoils has declined to unprecedented levels." Indeed, the government has made it official policy to protect the fat cats instead of helping the little guy. Due to Americans' passivity in the face of those who act like lords, Labor Day has been rendered completely meaningless.  




7
comments




























Saturday, September 3, 2011





When the Rich Get Richer, It DOESN'T Raise All Boats ...  It SINKS The Standard of Living For Everyone Else


I've repeatedly noted that rampant inequality destabilizes the economy as a whole, and actually causes depressions ...  but that government policy is increasing inequality.
 I've also pointed out that no one - liberal or conservative - likes runaway inequality.
 Now, Jeffrey P. Thompson (Assistant Research Professor at the Political Economy Research Institute of the University of Massachusetts, Amherst) and Elias Leight (Assistant Analyst Tax Analysis Division of the Congressional Budget Office) have demonstrated that when the wealthiest Americans get richer, everyone else becomes poorer.
 For example, they demonstrate that when the wealthiest Americans get 10% richer, middle income Americans get 2% poorer.
  




1 comments
























Back In The Saddle


 I'm back from a week-long vacation with my family.  Thanks to the wonderful guest posters for their great reporting.We'll make guest posting a regular part of Washington's Blog, and we'll also get back to writing ourselves.
  




1 comments
























Full-Blown Civil War Erupts On Wall Street: As Reality Finally Hits The Financial Elite, They Start Turning On Each Other


By David DeGraw, AmpedStatus.com  Finally, after trillions in fraudulent activity, trillions in bailouts, trillions in printed money, billions in political bribing and billions in bonuses, the criminal cartel members on Wall Street are beginning to get what they deserve.  As the Eurozone is coming apart at the seams and as the US economy grinds to a halt, the financial elite are starting to turn on each other. The lawsuits are piling up fast.  Here's an extensive roundup:
 As I reported last week:
Collapse Roundup #5: Goliath On The Ropes, Big Banks Getting Hit Hard,  It's A "Bloodbath" As Wall Street's Crimes Blow Up In Their Face
 Time to put your Big Bank shorts on! Get ready for a run... The chickens are coming home to roost... The Global Banking Cartel's crimes are being exposed left & right... Prepare for Shock & Awe...Well, well... here's your Shock & Awe:
 First up, this shockingly huge $196 billion lawsuit just filed against 17 major banks on behalf of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.  Bank of America is severely exposed on this lawsuit.  As the parent company of Countrywide and Merrill Lynch they are on the hook for $57.4 billion.  JP Morgan is next in the line of fire with $33 billion. And many death spiraling European banks are facing billions in losses as well.
 FHA Files a $196 Billion Lawsuit Against 17 Banks  The Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA), as conservator for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac (the Enterprises), today filed lawsuits against 17 financial institutions, certain of their officers and various unaffiliated lead underwriters. The suits allege violations of federal securities laws and common law in the sale of residential private-label mortgage-backed securities (PLS) to the Enterprises.
 Complaints have been filed against the following lead defendants, in alphabetical order:
 1. Ally Financial Inc. f/k/a GMAC, LLC - $6 billion
2. Bank of America Corporation - $6 billion
3. Barclays Bank PLC - $4.9 billion
4. Citigroup, Inc. - $3.5 billion
5. Countrywide Financial Corporation -$26.6 billion
6. Credit Suisse Holdings (USA), Inc. - $14.1 billion
7. Deutsche Bank AG - $14.2 billion
8. First Horizon National Corporation - $883 million
9. General Electric Company - $549 million
10. Goldman Sachs & Co. - $11.1 billion
11. HSBC North America Holdings, Inc. - $6.2 billion
12. JPMorgan Chase & Co. - $33 billion
13. Merrill Lynch & Co. / First Franklin Financial Corp. - $24.8 billion
14. Morgan Stanley - $10.6 billion
15. Nomura Holding America Inc. - $2 billion
16. The Royal Bank of Scotland Group PLC - $30.4 billion
17. Société Générale - $1.3 billion
 These complaints were filed in federal or state court in New York or the federal court in Connecticut. The complaints seek damages and civil penalties under the Securities Act of 1933, similar in content to the complaint FHFA filed against UBS Americas, Inc. on July 27, 2011. In addition, each complaint seeks compensatory damages for negligent misrepresentation. Certain complaints also allege state securities law violations or common law fraud. [read full FHFA release]You can read the suits filed against each individual bank here. For some more information read Bloomberg: BofA, JPMorgan Among 17 Banks Sued by U.S. for $196 Billion. Noticeably absent from the list of companies being sued is Wells Fargo.
 And the suits just keep coming...
 BofA sued over $1.75 billion Countrywide mortgage pool Bank of America Corp (BAC.N) was sued by the trustee of a $1.75 billion mortgage pool, which seeks to force the bank to buy back the underlying loans because of alleged misrepresentations in how they were made.  The lawsuit by the banking unit of US Bancorp (USB.N) is the latest of a number of suits seeking to recover investor losses tied to risky mortgage loans issued by Countrywide Financial Corp, which Bank of America bought in 2008.  In a complaint filed in a New York state court in Manhattan, U.S. Bank said Countrywide, which issued the 4,484 loans in the HarborView Mortgage Loan Trust 2005-10, materially breached its obligations by systemically misrepresenting the quality of its underwriting and loan documentation. [read more]Bank of America kept AIG legal threat under wraps Top Bank of America Corp lawyers knew as early as January that American International Group Inc was prepared to sue the bank for more than $10 billion, seven months before the lawsuit was filed, according to sources familiar with the matter.  Bank of America shares fell more than 20 percent on August 8, the day the lawsuit was filed, adding to worries about the stability of the largest U.S. bank.... The bank made no mention of the lawsuit threat in a quarterly regulatory filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission just four days earlier. Nor did management discuss it on conference calls about quarterly results and other pending legal claims. [read more]Nevada Lawsuit Shows Bank of America’s Criminal Incompetence  As we’ve stated before, litigation by attorney general is significant not merely due to the damages and remedies sought, but because it paves the way for private lawsuits.  And make no mistake about it, this filing is a doozy. It shows the Federal/state attorney general mortgage settlement effort to be a complete travesty. The claim describes, in considerable detail, how various Bank of America units engaged in misconduct in virtually every aspect of its residential mortgage business. [read more]Nevada Wallops Bank of America With Sweeping Suit; Nationwide Foreclosure Settlement in Peril The sweeping new suit could have repercussions far beyond Nevada's borders. It further jeopardizes a possible nationwide settlement with the five largest U.S. banks over their foreclosure practices, especially given concerns voiced by other attorneys general, New York's foremost among them.... In a statement, Bank of America spokeswoman Jumana Bauwens said reaching a settlement would bring a better outcome for homeowners than litigation. "We believe that the best way to get the housing market going again in every state is a global settlement that addresses these issues fairly, comprehensively and with finality. [read more]FDIC Objects to Bank of America’s $8.5 Billion Mortgage-Bond Accord The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. is objecting to Bank of America Corp. (BAC)’s proposed $8.5 billion mortgage-bond settlement with investors, joining investors and states that are challenging the agreement.  The FDIC owns securities covered by the settlement and said it doesn’t have enough information to evaluate the accord, according to a filing today in federal court in Manhattan.  Bank of America has agreed to pay $8.5 billion to resolve claims from investors in Countrywide Financial mortgage bonds. The settlement was negotiated with a group of institutional investors and would apply to investors outside that group. [read more]Fed asks Bank of America to list contingency plan: report The Federal Reserve has asked Bank of America Corp to show what measures it could take if business conditions worsen, the Wall Street Journal said, citing people familiar with the situation.  BofA executives recently responded to the unusual request from the Federal Reserve with a list of options that includes the issuance of a separate class of shares tied to the performance of its Merrill Lynch securities unit, the people told the paper.  Bank of America and the Fed declined to comment to the Journal. Both could not immediately be reached for comment by Reuters outside regular U.S. business hours. [read more]Bombshell Admission of Failed Securitization Process in American Home Mortgage Servicing/LPS Lawsuit  Wow, Jones Day just created a huge mess for its client and banks generally if anyone is alert enough to act on it.  The lawsuit in question is American Home Mortgage Servicing Inc. v Lender Processing Services. It hasn’t gotten all that much attention (unless you are on the LPS deathwatch beat) because to most, it looks like yet another beauty contest between Cinderella’s two ugly sisters.  AHMSI is a servicer (the successor to Option One, and it may also still have some Ameriquest servicing).
 AHMSI is mad at LPS because LPS was supposed to prepare certain types of documentation AHMSI used in foreclosures. AHMSI authorized the use of certain designated staffers signing with the authority of AHSI (what we call robosinging, since the people signing these documents didn’t have personal knowledge, which is required if any of the documents were affidavits). But it did not authorize the use of surrogate signers, which were (I kid you not) people hired to forge the signatures of robosigners.  The lawsuit rather matter of factly makes a stunning admission... [read more]Fraudclosure: MERS Case Filed With Supreme Court Before readers get worried by virtue of the headline that the Supreme Court will use its magic legal wand to make the dubious MERS mortgage registry system viable, consider the following:   
 1. The Supreme Court hears only a very small portion of the cases filed with it, and is less likely to take one with these demographics (filed by a private party, and an appeal out of a state court system, as opposed to Federal court). This case, Gomes v. Countywide, was decided against the plaintiff in lower and appellate court and the California state supreme court declined to hear it   
 2. If MERS or the various servicers who have had foreclosures overturned based on challenges to MERS thought they’d get a sympathetic hearing at the Supreme Court, they probably would have filed some time ago. MERS have apparently been settling cases rather than pursue ones where it though the judge would issue an unfavorable precedent   
 3. The case in question, from what the experts I consulted with and I can tell, is not the sort the Supreme Court would intervene in based on the issue raised, which is due process (14th Amendment). But none of us have seen the underlying lower and appellate court cases, and the summaries we’ve seen are unusually unclear as to what the legal argument is. [read more]Iowa Says State AG Accord Won’t Release Banks From Liability The 50-state attorney general group investigating mortgage foreclosure practices won’t release banks from all civil, or any criminal, liability in a settlement, Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller said. [read more]Fed Launches New Formal Enforcement Action Against Goldman Sachs To Review Foreclosure Practices The Federal Reserve Board has just launched a formal enforcement action against Goldman Sachs related to Litton Loan Services.  Litton Loan is the nightmare-ridden mortgage servicing unit, a subsidiary of Goldman, that Goldman has been trying to sell for months.   They penned a deal to recently, but the Fed stepped in and required Goldman to end robo-signing taking place at the unit before the sale could be completed.   Sounds like this enforcement action is an extension of that requirement. [read more]Goldman Sachs, Firms Agree With Regulator To End 'Robo-Signing' Foreclosure Practices Goldman Sachs and two other firms have agreed with the New York banking regulator to end the practice known as robo-signing, in which bank employees signed foreclosure documents without reviewing case files as required by law, the Wall Street Journal said.  In an agreement with New York's financial-services superintendent, Goldman, its Litton Loan Servicing unit and Ocwen Financial Corp also agreed to scrutinize loan files for evidence they mishandled borrowers' paperwork and to cut mortgage payments for some New York homeowners, the Journal said. [read more]Banks still robo-signing, filing doubtful foreclosure documents Reuters has found that some of the biggest U.S. banks and other "loan servicers" continue to file questionable foreclosure documents with courts and county clerks. They are using tactics that late last year triggered an outcry, multiple investigations and temporary moratoriums on foreclosures.  In recent months, servicers have filed thousands of documents that appear to have been fabricated or improperly altered, or have sworn to false facts.  Reuters also identified at least six "robo-signers," individuals who in recent months have each signed thousands of mortgage assignments -- legal documents which pinpoint ownership of a property. These same individuals have been identified -- in depositions, court testimony or court rulings -- as previously having signed vast numbers of foreclosure documents that they never read or checked. [read more]JPMorgan fined for contravening Iran, Cuba sanctions JPMorgan Chase Bank has been fined $88.3 million for contravening US sanctions against regimes in Iran, Cuba and Sudan, and the former Liberian government, the US Treasury Department announced Thursday.  The Treasury said that the bank had engaged in a number of "egregious" financial transfers, loans and other facilities involving those countries but, in announcing a settlement with the bank, said they were "apparent" violations of various sanctions regulations. [read more]This Is Considered Punishment? The Federal Reserve Wells Fargo Farce What made the news surprising, of course, was that the Federal Reserve has rarely, if ever, taken action against a bank for making predatory loans. Alan Greenspan, the former Fed chairman, didn’t believe in regulation and turned a blind eye to subprime abuses. His successor, Ben Bernanke, is not the ideologue that Greenspan is, but, as an institution, the Fed prefers to coddle banks rather than punish them.
 That the Fed would crack down on Wells Fargo would seem to suggest a long-overdue awakening.  Yet, for anyone still hoping for justice in the wake of the financial crisis, the news was hardly encouraging. First, the Fed did not force Wells Fargo to admit guilt — and even let the company issue a press release blaming its wrongdoing on a “relatively small group.”
 The $85 million fine was a joke; in just the last quarter, Wells Fargo’s revenues exceeded $20 billion. And compensating borrowers isn’t going to hurt much either. By my calculation, it won’t top $20 million. [read more] Exclusive: Regulators seek high-frequency trading secrets U.S. securities regulators have taken the unprecedented step of asking high-frequency trading firms to hand over the details of their trading strategies, and in some cases, their secret computer codes.  The requests for proprietary code and algorithm parameters by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA), a Wall Street brokerage regulator, are part of investigations into suspicious market activity, said Tom Gira, executive vice president of FINRA's market regulation unit. [read more]And here's part of the Collapse Roundup I wrote on August 25th, referenced in the beginning of this report - as you will see, I would probably make a lot more money as an investment adviser:
 Collapse Roundup #5: Goliath On The Ropes, Big Banks Getting Hit Hard,  It's A "Bloodbath" As Wall Street's Crimes Blow Up In Their Face   Time to put your Big Bank shorts on! Get ready for a run...
 The chickens are coming home to roost. Reality is catching up with the market riggers (Fed, ECB, PPT, CIA) and the "too big to fail" banks are getting whacked.  Trillions of dollars in bailouts and legalized (FASB) accounting fraud cannot save these insolvent zombie banks any longer.  The Grim Reaper is on the horizon and his sickle will do what paid off politicians won't, cut 'em down to size. So get your silver stake ready, time to plunge it into their vampire squid hearts....
 What about Warren Buffet? He saved Goldman Sachs with a bailout in 2008. Can he save Bank of America?...
 Warren’s bailout will help BofA over the short run, but $5 billion is just a drop in the bucket when it comes to their problems. The only thing his $5 billion will accomplish is a temporary run up in stock value so everyone who has been killed on the plummeting stock price can then jump out without complete loss....
 Trouble a-comin'...
 Goldman Sachs TANKS After CEO Lloyd Blankfein Hires Famous Defense Lawyer  Is the Goldman Sachs CEO facing a new lawsuit?
 The market seems to think so. Goldman Sachs just tanked in minutes before the close after news that Lloyd Blankfein hired a lawyer famous for defending vilified execs. It's back up a bit since dropping over 5%, but the news is still concerning.
 It's unclear whether the lawyer is for him, Goldman Sachs, or both, but Goldman Sachs's CEO Lloyd Blankfein hired Reid Weingarten, a high profile defense attorney who says "I'm used to these monstrously difficult cases where everybody hates my clients," according to Reuters.
 Reuters says the hire might have something to do with accusations of Blankfein's committing perjury. Or something else:
 One former federal prosecutor, who was not authorized to speak publicly, said Blankfein may have hired outside counsel after receiving a request from investigators for documents or other information. [read full report]Speaking of hiring lawyers...
 The Global Banking Cartel's Crimes Are Being Exposed Left & Right...
 Blowing Up In Their Face... Prepare for Shock & Awe...  BOOM! Moody's exposed:
 MOODY'S ANALYST BREAKS SILENCE: Says Ratings Agency Rotten To Core With Conflicts A former senior analyst at Moody's has gone public with his story of how one of the country's most important rating agencies is corrupted to the core.
 The analyst, William J. Harrington, worked for Moody's for 11 years, from 1999 until his resignation last year.
 From 2006 to 2010, Harrington was a Senior Vice President in the derivative products group, which was responsible for producing many of the disastrous ratings Moody's issued during the housing bubble.
 Harrington has made his story public in the form of a 78-page "comment" to the SEC's proposed rules about rating agency reform....
 Here are some key points:
  * Moody's ratings often do not reflect its analysts' private conclusions. Instead, rating committees privately conclude that certain securities deserve certain ratings--but then vote with management to give the securities the higher ratings that issuer clients want.
  * Moody's management and "compliance" officers do everything possible to make issuer clients happy--and they view analysts who do not do the same as "troublesome." Management employs a variety of tactics to transform these troublesome analysts into "pliant corporate citizens" who have Moody's best interests at heart.
  * Moody's product managers participate in--and vote on--ratings decisions. These product managers are the same people who are directly responsible for keeping clients happy and growing Moody's business.
  * At least one senior executive lied under oath at the hearings into rating agency conduct. Another executive, who Harrington says exemplified management's emphasis on giving issuers what they wanted, skipped the hearings altogether. [read full report]BOOM! The SEC Caught Covering Up Wall Street Crimes:
 Matt Taibbi Exposes How SEC Shredded Thousands of Investigations  An explosive new report in Rolling Stone magazine exposes how the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission destroyed records of thousands of investigations, whitewashing the files of some of the nation’s largest banks and hedge funds, including AIG, Wells Fargo, Lehman Brothers, Goldman Sachs, Bank of America and top Wall Street broker Bernard Madoff. Last week, Republican Sen. Chuck Grassley of Iowa said an agency whistleblower had sent him a letter detailing the unlawful destruction of records detailing more than 9,000 information investigations. We speak with Matt Taibbi, the political reporter for Rolling Stone magazine who broke this story in his latest article....    KA-BOOM!  The Fed And All Their Crony-Capitalist Cartel Members Exposed, Yet Again:
 Wall Street Pentagon Papers Part III – Are The Federal Reserve’s Crimes Still Too Big To Comprehend?  Another day, another trillion plus in secret Federal Reserve “bailouts” revealed. Bloomberg News exposes this latest Fed “deal” after winning a long Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) legal battle to get the details on what was done with the American people’s money. Their report runs with an AmpedStatus style headline: “Wall Street Aristocracy Got $1.2 Trillion From Fed.”
 The aristocracy is alive and well… thanks to the Fed, of course.
 Keep in mind, this $1.2 trillion is in addition to the $16 trillion the Government Accountability Office (GAO) audit revealed and the over $2 trillion in Quantitative Easing the Fed dished out, not to mention the now continued promise of the Zero Interest Rate Policy (ZIRP). This is also separate from the $700 billion TARP program that Congress approved. This is yet another unknown secret program, throwing another mere $1.2 trillion in public money at the Wall Street elite (global banking cartel), just being revealed now.
 Those of us paying attention over the past three years have had Fed crony-capitalism on steroids fatigue for awhile now. Nonetheless, this is deja vu all over again as another mindbogglingly huge story that must be covered comes to light.
 Here are the details of this latest revelation:
  [read full report]Speaking of the $16 trillion GAO audit...
 BOOM! GAO audit exposed, missing some vital details:
 More on how the GAO's Fed audit failed to disclose some dirty secrets about BlackRock and JP Morgan   In its review of the Fed's outsourcing practices, it failed to mention the most damaging and suspicious sole-source (no bid) contract awarded to BlackRock, which was for handling the New York Fed's toxic Bear Stearns portfolio, otherwise known as Maiden Lane. This contract would generate $108,000,000 in fees and was one of the largest awarded during the bailout period, but it might also have saved JP Morgan $1.1 billion in losses from its Bear Stearns acquisition....
 Also, BlackRock was also one of the managers of the NY Fed's separate $1.25 trillion MBS purchase program as part of QE1. Contrary to the lie on the NY Fed's webpage (that the MBS auctions were conducted via competitive bidding), the NY Fed's own purchasing manager, Brian Sack, admitted in a paper that, "the MBS purchases were arranged with primary dealer counterparties directly, [and] there was no auction mechanism to provide a measure of market supply."
 Putting it all together, it looks like Jamie Dimon signed off on hiring BlackRock for no justifiable reason to trade the very Maiden Lane portfolio that could have caused his bank, JP Morgan, to lose up to $1.1 billion. And, it was entirely possible that BlackRock saved the portfolio by trading the MBS portion of ML with the New York Fed directly as QE1 was underway. [read full report]BOOM! Bear Stearns exposed:
 Report Says Bear Stearns Executives Sold Illegal RMBS and Covered It Up Former back office employees from Bear Stearns are coming out of the woodwork to explain how Tom Marano’s mortgage group cheated their own clients out of billions. This week I reported at The Distressed Debt Report, EMC insiders say they were told to make up the classification for whole loans, packaged into mortgage securities, to get them switched out of the trust. By classifying the loans as ‘prepaid’ or having ‘subsequent recoveries’ Bear employees were able to fool the trustee into giving them back loans they were not able to legally service. A move New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman is actively investigating now.
 In my latest DealFlow story we hear from EMC staffers who describe how subprime loans, that would have been sold by Bear Stearns trader Jeff Verschleiser’s team, never had a proper servicing license in West Virginia when they were packaged into the residential mortgage backed security. In 2003 Bear/EMC put $100 million of subprime loans from West Virginia into a few RMBS transactions. EMC, the banks wholly owned mortgage servicing shop, would service all of Bear’s RMBS after they were sold.
 A year latter, when senior executies realized the mishap instead of Bear going out and informing their regulator and applying for a license, they orchestrated a cover up and even threaten EMC employees not to talk about it. [read full report]The big banks are getting lit up!
 You shall reap what you sow.
 Karma is a ... bit@h. [read full report]
 Let's end with this video.  We need to keep in mind that the Federal Reserve has known about all of this criminal activity from the start.  Yet, they have done everything they could, and are still trying, to keep this criminal operation up and running.  As all these criminal banks begin to blow up, let's not forget who their central bank is and what they have done to the American people.
 Cenk, take it away and drive the point home:
   - David DeGraw is the founder and editor of AmpedStatus.com.  His long-awaited book, The Road Through 2012: Revolution or World War III, will finally be released on September 28th. He can be emailed at David[@]AmpedStatus.com.  You can follow David's reporting daily on his new personal website: DavidDeGraw.org 




3
comments
























Extreme Weather: Severe Flooding Hits Gulf Coast; Texas On Fire; Earthquakes Hit Alaska, Argentina; Vast Ice Island; BP Deepwater Horizon Site Leaking


By David DeGraw, AmpedStatus.com Tropical storm Lee threatens severe flooding in Alabama, Louisiana, and Mississippi Tropical Storm Lee now has winds approaching 60 miles per hour. Louisiana has heavy rain, and authorities warn of flooding in Alabama and Mississippi as well. States of emergency have been declared.A tropical storm moving toward the Gulf Coast is predicated to bring massive flooding to Alabama, Louisiana, and Mississippi this weekend, particularly in New Orleans where up to 20 inches of rain is expected. Tropical Storm Lee will hit southwest Louisiana by Saturday afternoon. The storm is moving southwest of the Mississippi River with maximum sustained winds approaching 60 miles per hour. Flash flood warnings are in effect, covering Mississippi to Texas. A tropical storm warning is also in effect along the coast, stretching from the Alabama-Florida border to the Sabine Pass in Texas. [read more]Despite $10 billion effort to rebuild, New Orleans levees get a near-failing grade in new corps rating systemA new Army Corps of Engineers rating system for the nation’s levees is about to deliver a near-failing grade to New Orleans area dikes, despite the internationally acclaimed $10 billion effort to rebuild the system in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, corps officials have confirmed. [read more]Lee already causes thousands of power outages in LouisianaTropical Storm Lee knocked out power early on Saturday for more than 38,000 customers, primarily in the New Orleans area, said a utility company that provides power for most of Louisiana.  Outages are expected to increase as the storm moves ashore… [read more]Repairs Urgently Needed in VermontOf all the challenges facing Vermont as it tries to recover from the floods caused by the remnants of Hurricane Irene, there may be none more daunting — or vital to solve — than repairing and reopening the hundreds of roads and dozens of bridges that the storm knocked out. In many spots, the roads must be fixed before equipment can be brought in to repair everything from homes and businesses to the power grid, railroad tracks and water and wastewater systems.It is a race against time: winter comes early here, and there are just two and a half months before snowfall and frozen ground typically halt the state’s short road-building season.  [read more]Dramatic Aerial Imagery of Irene’s Destruction in Outer Banks The power of Hurricane Irene was clearly apparent to people in its path, but the extent of the damage may be easier to appreciate when seen from above.  The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration is using aerial photographs like the one above to assess Irene’s destruction. In this image of Hatteras Island in North Carolina taken on Aug. 28, the largest breach of Highway 12, which runs along the Outer Banks, can be seen. Water is flowing between Pamlico Sound and the Atlantic Ocean, stranding at least 2,500 residents of the island. [read more]Vermont’s misery continues as flooding isolates communitiesResidents of Vermont know their work is cut out for them as they struggle for normalcy after enduring the wrath of Irene.  The landlocked rural state saw fast-moving floods spawned by the storm swarm towns from Brattleboro to Woodstock.  "It’s heartbreaking to see your home and home state destroyed — and seeing places and landmarks that you can recognize even from early childhood now destroyed by flooding," said Ryan Ritter who lives in Rutland near the state’s border with New York.  There was no way in or out of his town, the 20-year-old Ritter said. [read more]From Waterbury to Wilmington, Vermonters shocked by Irene’s destructionVermonters will need weeks to begin to recover from massive flooding from Tropical Storm Irene that killed at least three people and left a trail of devastation from St. Johnsbury to Bennington.  That sentiment is reverberating across Vermont, echoed by everyone from Gov. Peter Shumlin to shell-shocked homeowners victimized by the torrent.  "This is the most violent thing I’ve ever seen," said Scott Bradley, director of public safety in flood-ravaged Mendon, seeming to speak for the countless Vermonters who watched roads, houses, bridges and businesses wash away in Sunday’s torrent. [read more]Power outages, flooding continue in wake of Hurricane IreneOf the estimated 5.5 million homes and businesses that lost electricity as a result of the storm, one fifth of these—1.1 million—were still without power as of Thursday morning, according to the U.S. Department of Energy. Worst affected were Connecticut, with 16 percent of customers without power, and Rhode Island, where 14 percent were still waiting for it to be restored.  The nation’s electric grid, with power lines predominantly above ground, is prone to blackouts. Homes often lose power due to thunderstorms or blizzards, let alone major storms. While authorities are well aware that major hurricanes and tornadoes will sooner or later strike, nothing is done to prepare for them because the power grid is controlled by a network of private energy conglomerates. Neither the energy giants nor the government has any interest in spending the money required to upgrade the system to provide reliable delivery of electricity—a basic necessity—to the population. [read more]‘Astronomical’ High Tide, Typhoon Nanmadol In China Create Massive Waves   Massive waves crashed against the coast of China’s Zhejiang Province as effects from an approaching typhoon coincided with an "astronomical tide."  The high tide creates 60-foot waves 10 days during the lunar calendar… Residents and tourists often head to the coast every August to watch the waves, according to China’s Central Television. Winds from Typhoon Nanmadol intensified their force and height. [read more]6.4 earthquake shakes northern ArgentinaA magnitude-6.4 earthquake has struck north-central Argentina, shaking things up enough to make people evacuate some buildings in the capital hundreds of miles away.  The U.S. Geological Service says the quake’s epicenter was 80 miles (130 kilometers) southeast of Santiago del Estero, a provincial capital of 250,000 people and the 12th-largest city in Argentina. [read more]Major 6.8 quake rocks Alaska A major earthquake measuring a preliminary magnitude of 7.1 has rocked remote portions of Alaska, the U.S. Geological Survey reports. The USGS issued, then canceled, a tsunami warning for Alaska’s Aleutian Islands. It also lowered the magnitude to 6.8.  Updated at 11:22 a.m. ET: Alaska Native News has weighed in on the quake, noting that the area "is frequented by earthquakes every day, although a majority of them have a magnitude less than this. [read more]Earthquake caused massive nuclear storage casks to move Last week’s central Virginia earthquake caused 25 spent-fuel storage casks — each weighing 115 tons — to move on their concrete pad at Dominion Virginia Power’s North Anna nuclear power plant.  The shifting of these massive casks holding used nuclear fuel was the first caused by an earthquake in the U.S., according to the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission.  None of the metal cylinders was damaged and no radiation was released, Dominion Virginia Power said.  Like hockey pucks on a jostled tray, the 16-foot tall casks shifted from an inch to 4½ inches, utility company spokesman Rick Zuercher said. [read more]Quake risk to nuclear reactors far higher than realized The risk that an earthquake would cause a severe accident at a U.S. nuclear plant is greater than previously thought, 24 times as high in one case, according to an AP analysis of preliminary government data.  The nation’s nuclear regulator believes a quarter of America’s reactors may need modifications to make them safer.  The threat came into sharp focus last week, when shaking from the largest earthquake to hit Virginia in 117 years appeared to exceed what the North Anna nuclear power plant northwest of Richmond was built to sustain. [read more]Texas fires: 80% of state in ‘exceptional’ drought The U.S. Drought Monitor has released a new map of drought conditions across the nation, and it’s not a pretty picture for Texas. About 80% of the state is currently experiencing exceptional drought.  See what looks like a bloody scab in the bottom center of the country? The brick-red color indicates exceptional drought. The brighter red is considered the not-quite-as-bad extreme drought. And the sunny yellow color? That’s only severe drought.  Slightly more than 99% of the state is in severe drought or worse. Here’s a closer view.  The U.S. Drought Monitor map is put together by the National Drought Mitigation Center in Lincoln, Neb. [read more]Heat kills more than 124,000 fish in Texas lake More than 124,000 fish died at Lake Grapevine this week as this summer’s nonstop heat severely depleted oxygen levels, an official with the Texas Parks and Wildlife Department said.  "There were lots of dead fish stacking up at the Silver Lake Marina," said Tom Hungerford, a fisheries biologist for the agency. The marina is at the southeast end of the lake near the dam.  Almost all the dead fish were threadfin shad, biologist Melissa Dudley said. [read more]Expanding Deserts, Falling Water Tables, and Toxic Pollutants Driving People from Their Homes | Lester BrownPeople do not normally leave their homes, their families, and their communities unless they have no other option. Yet as environmental stresses mount, we can expect to see a growing number of environmental refugees. Rising seas and increasingly devastating storms grab headlines, but expanding deserts, falling water tables, and toxic waste and radiation are also forcing people from their homes. Advancing deserts are now on the move almost everywhere. The Sahara desert, for example, is expanding in every direction. As it advances northward, it is squeezing the populations of Morocco, Tunisia, and Algeria against the Mediterranean coast. The Sahelian region of Africa—the vast swath of savannah that separates the southern Sahara desert from the tropical rainforests of central Africa—is shrinking as the desert moves southward. As the desert invades Nigeria, Africa’s most populous country, from the north, farmers and herders are forced southward, squeezed into a shrinking area of productive land. A 2006 U.N. conference on desertification in Tunisia projected that by 2020 up to 60 million people could migrate from sub-Saharan Africa to North Africa and Europe. [read more]Vast ice island set to break off Greenland glacierNew photographs taken of a vast glacier in northern Greenland have revealed the astonishing rate of its breakup, with one scientist saying he was rendered "speechless."  In August 2010, part of the Petermann Glacier about four times the size of Manhattan island broke off , prompting a hearing in Congress.  Researcher Alun Hubbard, of the Centre for Glaciology at Aberystwyth University, U.K., [said] that another section, about twice the size of Manhattan, appeared close to breaking off. [read more]Space junk ‘at tipping point’The amount of debris orbiting the Earth has reached "a tipping point" for collisions, which would in turn generate more of the debris that threatens astronauts and satellites.  Nasa needs a new strategic plan for mitigating the hazards posed by spent rocket bodies, discarded satellites and thousands of other pieces of junk flying around the planet at speeds of 28,164km/h, the US National Research Council said in a study published yesterday. [read more]The return of the BP disasterOil has been surfacing all over the northern quadrant of the Gulf of Mexico for several weeks now, according to residents.  Reports of slicks that meander for kilometres and huge expanses of oil sheen that look like phantom islands are becoming common again.  Fresh oil, only slightly weathered, has been washing ashore in areas hit hardest by last year’s disaster. These areas include Breton Island, Ship Island, the Chandeleur Islands, and northern Barataria Bay, Louisiana.  BP has reactivated its Vessels of Opportunity (VOO) Program to handle clean-up operations.  [read more]New leak near Deepwater Horizon site quickly becoming a massive oil slickOver the past two weeks, I have been closely following reports of renewed leaking in the Macondo oil field, the site of last year’s Deepwater Horizon disaster. First, New Orleans Lawyer Stuart Smith reported that nearly 40 ships were hired by BP to conduct a boom-laying mission over the August 13th weekend. Next, nonprofit organizations On Wings of Care and Gulf Restoration Network conducted a joint flyover of the spill site, bringing back photographic evidence of fresh oil near the site of the Macondo well. This in turn prompted reporters from the Mobile Press-Register to hire a boat out to the site, where they found massive “globules” of oil rising to the surface, creating a growing sheen on the water. [read more]Dispersants Used in BP Gulf Oil Spill Linked to CancerFive of the 57 ingredients in dispersants approved by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency for use on oil spills are linked to cancer, finds a new research report based on data obtained through a Freedom of Information Act request by environmental groups on the Gulf of Mexico.   The report from Earthjustice, an environmental law firm, along with Toxipedia Consulting Services, is based on material released by the U.S. EPA in response to a Freedom of Information Act request made by Earthjustice on behalf of the Gulf Restoration Network and the Florida Wildlife Federation.
Dispersants are used to clean up oil spills and contain chemicals that break up oil into smaller droplets and move the oil from the surface of the water into the water column.  Two oil dispersant products were used heavily in the BP oil leak: COREXIT 9500 and 9527, both produced by Nalco/Exxon. BP used over 1.8 million gallons of dispersant during the three-month long oil leak that gushed 4.9 million barrels of crude oil from the Macondo well located about 40 miles southeast of the Louisiana coast. [read more]Toxicologist: Michigan oil spill far more toxic than admittedThe medical community knows this,” she says. “The public policies have not been adjusted to reflect the new science because the petrochemical lobby is so strong that it is blocking the health consequences of our continued oil use.”  Ott says sick people are a problem for oil companies and the government.  “It’s not just a simple pipeline break or a rig blow out. It’s America’s energy future, the politicians have no exit strategy off oil,” she says. “So they minimize the costs in sick people, lost babies, it doesn’t matter. That’s what we’re seeing. Battle Creek is a pawn in this giant bid for Alberta tar sands. It doesn’t matter that it happened in Battle Creek … there will be countless communities in the future. What is starting to change is that — after witnessing this over two decades now — this is a decision that is not going to be made by the politicians, our energy policy, it’s going to be the people. Fracking, tar sands, there is a moral obligation for future life and immediate public health that we do something different. That will give enough transformation to bring the politicians along. [read more]10 Facts About Global Energy Consumption That Will Surprise You In fact, global energy consumption grew 5.6 percent in 2010, the highest rate since 1973. Discover 10 other fascinating facts about worldwide consumption. [read more]Cesium leak equal to 168 ’45 A-bombs – NISA compares contamination to Hiroshima blastThe amount of radioactive cesium ejected by the Fukushima reactor meltdowns is about 168 times higher than that emitted in the atomic bombing of Hiroshima, the government’s nuclear watchdog said….The report said the crippled Fukushima No. 1 plant has released 15,000 terabecquerels of cesium-137, which lingers for decades and can cause cancer, compared with the 89 terabecquerels released by the U.S. atomic bombing of Hiroshima. [read more]  




0
comments






















Wednesday, August 31, 2011





Open proposal for US revolution: expose corporate media as propaganda. 4 of 4.


 By Carl Herman, National Board Certified Teacher in economics, government, and history, who blogs as the Nonpartisan Examiner at Examiner.com.  Carl was one of the leaders who launched the microcredit movement, and is a tireless activist for peace and justice.
 Don't be confused by the title.  Carl - like all of us at Washington's Blog - is against violent revolution, following instead the non-violent paths of Gandhi and Martin Luther King, Jr.   As we have previously written:I am NOT calling for the overthrow of the government. In fact, I am  calling for the reinstatement of our government. I am calling for an end  to lawlessness and lack of accountability and a return to the rule of  law. Rather than trying to subvert the constitution, I am calling for  its enforcement.  My friend and colleague for justice, Washington’s Blog’s author, invited me to “guest blog.” I’ll provide two. First: Gandhi’s conclusion of the essential importance of speaking Truth. Second: a 4-part series to document that current US wars are unlawful, US economic policy is massive criminal fraud, and that these “emperor has no clothes” facts are lied about by US corporate media in constant deception.   I appreciate Washington’s Blog’s author for the intellectual integrity and moral courage to document powerful facts; as I appreciate readers’ thoughts, words, and acts of virtue - Carl Herman    “We denounce with righteous indignation and dislike men who are so beguiled and demoralized by the charms of pleasure of the moment, so blinded by desire, that they cannot foresee the pain and trouble that are bound to ensue; and equal blame belongs to those who fail in their duty through weakness of will, which is the same as saying through shrinking from toil and pain. These cases are perfectly simple and easy to distinguish. In a free hour, when our power of choice is untrammeled and when nothing prevents our being able to do what we like best, every pleasure is to be welcomed and every pain avoided. But in certain circumstances and owing to the claims of duty or the obligations of business it will frequently occur that pleasures have to be repudiated and annoyances accepted. The wise man therefore always holds in these matters to this principle of selection: he rejects pleasures to secure other greater pleasures, or else he endures pains to avoid worse pains.”  - Marcus Tullius Cicero, On Duties: The Extremes of Good and Evil,  44 BCE, translated by H. Rackham (1914). Revolution is from the Latin, revolutio, a “turn around” of political power. The US public would revolt and end unlawful US wars and banksters’ rigged-casino fraud if they understood and embraced the central facts of these issues. This four-part series of articles provides the central facts, invites passionate public response, and proposes specific revolutionary public action. Please share the Revolution to end unlawful US wars and return trillions of our dollars to constructive work. With millions of lives at stake (perhaps billions), there is nothing more important for public participation. Part 1: Open proposal for US revolution: end unlawful wars, parasitic/criminal economics Part 2: Open proposal for US revolution: end unlawful wars, all begun with lies Part 3: Open proposal for US revolution: end parasitic and criminal economics Part 4: Open proposal for US revolution: expose corporate media as propaganda These four articles are academic in language and documentation. My citizen advocacy paper, Government by dicts, has additional resources. _____________________________________________________________________________________________ Why corporate media propagandizes and won’t expose the “emperor has no clothes” obvious: They’re complicit with government “leadership” is the prima facie explanation. Let’s examine this important question more closely.  Much of the factual evidence I provided was probably new and surprising. Given the importance of the information in this paper, verifiable factual credibility, and expert testimony to promote it, the fact that corporate media will not comprehensively report it is circumstantial evidence of collusion to support unlawful government policies. Circumstantial evidence is not definitive, but will raise your eyebrows to ask why you haven’t been informed from corporate media sources.  We have verified history of official government propaganda having infiltrated corporate media. The Church Senate Committee hearings had the cooperation of CIA Director William Colby’s testimony that over 400 CIA operatives were controlling US corporate media reporting on specific issues of national interest in what they called Operation Mockingbird. This stunning testimony was then confirmed by Pulitzer Prize reporter Carl Bernstein’s research and reporting. Of course, corporate media refused to publish Bernstein’s article and it became the cover-story for Rolling Stone. Bernstein provides additional information of CIA control in the Senate report and corporate media subsequent reporting:  “Pages 191 to 201 were entitled “Covert Relationships with the United States Media.” “It hardly reflects what we found,” stated Senator Gary Hart. “There was a prolonged and elaborate negotiation [with the CIA] over what would be said.”  Obscuring the facts was relatively simple. No mention was made of the 400 summaries or what they showed. Instead the report noted blandly that some fifty recent contacts with journalists had been studied by the committee staff—thus conveying the impression that the Agency’s dealings with the press had been limited to those instances. The Agency files, the report noted, contained little evidence that the editorial content of American news reports had been affected by the CIA’s dealings with journalists. Colby’s misleading public statements about the use of journalists were repeated without serious contradiction or elaboration. The role of cooperating news executives was given short shrift. The fact that the Agency had concentrated its relationships in the most prominent sectors of the press went unmentioned. That the CIA continued to regard the press as up for grabs was not even suggested.”  Let’s consider the specific case of corporate media collusion with official government rhetoric to lie about Iranian President Ahmadinejad’s October 2005 speech and contrive a non-existent physical threat to Israel. First: for the US political leaders and corporate media to accuse the president of Iran with threatening to destroy Israel, that’s the most serious of accusations. A threat of national destruction is the most vicious statement a head of state can make. For corporate media to not be in collusion to “report” this proven lie would have to mean that everyone involved in the story never read the speech in question, never consulted with Persian experts, and disregarded all people like me who informed them of their egregious error. Again, here’s my link of corporate media’s “reporting” in print and television allowing US political leaders to lie and repeating the lie themselves.  Of course, you have to verify the speech in order to not interpret the facts as a mistranslation or possible translation. This is appropriately analogous to checking the instant replay of the pitch at the baseball game to make sure it really was so outrageously outside the strike-zone that an “official” call that the pitch was a strike is stating a known lie. If it was an immediate error, it could and should have been corrected. That six years have passed and corporate media doesn’t inform Americans of the actual content and context of the speech is absolute evidence of an official propaganda arm of the same oligarchy spinning for unlawful war against Iran.  I’ve written articles providing evidence for obvious war propaganda to attack Iran identical to what we witnessed before the US attacked Iraq. From my article on CNN’s “reporting”:  When we now know that all claims for war with Iraq were known lies as they were told (and verbally explained here), and CNN provides similar innuendo for war by an unsourced alleged report with concerns of what might occur in the future allegedly stated by an unnamed US source reporting on an unnamed foreign source, this is propaganda and not news.  For another specific example, Mike Wallace of the famed television show 60 Minutes won an Emmy for a contrived interview with President Ahmadinejad in 2006, where Mr. Ahmadinejad’s comments encouraging democracy for Palestinians was edited to appear that he was hostile to Israel. You can verify this “emperor has no clothes” obvious lies and propaganda by watching the brief 5-minute clip for yourself in this article.  "Torture at Times: Waterboarding in the Media," a paper published from Harvard's Kennedy School of Government, found from the 1930s to 2004 that The New York Times reported waterboarding as torture 82% of the time, and The Los Angeles Times did so 96%. After stories broke that the US was waterboarding "detainees" in US unlawful wars, the papers' reporting of waterboarding as torture dropped to 1% and 5%, respectfully. In addition, after the US admitted to waterboarding, The Wall Street Journal called it torture in just 1 of 63 articles (2%), and USA Today never called it torture.  Just as only one in five Americans report trust and satisfaction with their government, Americans also perceive corporate media disinformation and are rejecting their “reporting.” According to a 2007 poll by the Pew Research Center, the majority of the American public see the US major media news organizations as politically biased, inaccurate, and uncaring. Among those who use the Internet, two-thirds report that major media news do not care about the people they report on, 59% say the news is inaccurate, 64% see bias, and 53% summarize their view on major media news as, “failing to stand up for America.” In their latest poll, “just 29% of Americans say that news organizations generally get the facts straight, while 63% say that news stories are often inaccurate.”  A June 2010 Rasmussen poll found 66% of voters "angry" at the media, with 33% "very angry." Rasmussen also found 70% "angry" at current federal government policies.  The genesis of oligarchic control of American major media was reported in the US Congressional Record in 1917. US Congressperson Oscar Callaway claimed evidence that J.P. Morgan had purchased editorial control over 25 of the nation's most influential publications in order to create public support for US entry into World War 1 and his new banking legislative victory: creation of the Federal Reserve system. Mr. Callaway's colleagues voted down an official investigation.  Related history is summarized and documented in this brief article, "The news media at war."  Importantly, it is also likely that disinformation programs infiltrate the comments of independent writers, like this source that you’re reading. Don’t be surprised if my proposal for Revolution attracts propagandistic attack of predictable rhetorical fallacies such as slurs of my character, straw-man arguments of what I write, denial of facts, lies of omission of central facts, and whatever other BS (thank you, Professor Frankfurt). The discerning characteristic of all propaganda is non-factual bravado and specious argument in order to maintain manipulative control of an agenda and distract attention from the damning facts.  You, the reader, are sharp enough to discern such propaganda.   The specific pathway for Revolution will be created as Dr. King and Gandhi discovered: through trial and error. What we’ve learned through their process is broad public and political communication of the facts and appropriate formal policy requests to honor what we’ve already won under the law. I’m among several who champion a policy strategy of an American Truth and Reconciliation process. When one confirms the lies for war and economic fraud, the obvious conclusion is that “leadership” of both parties are so deeply involved in criminal acts that perhaps the best response is to split those willing for a “Scrooge conversion” to disclose critical facts in exchange for no prosecution.  Martin King and Mohandas Gandhi demonstrated in their campaigns that transformative civic education causes a critical mass of educated people for breakthroughs in history-altering public policy. The public benefits of Revolution are the end of unlawful US wars and turning trillions of our dollars from unlawful fraudulent profits of an oligarchy to the public good of Americans producing the real economic value.  Again, imagine: how could you have helped the Civil Rights movement if Dr. King had asked? What would you have done if Gandhi asked for your help? In the converse: would you be proud today of rejecting Dr. King’s direct invitation for partnership in a Revolution for Civil Rights when he was only asking for public education on the clear letter and spirit of the 14thAmendment? Would you be proud today of rejecting Gandhi’s direct request for partnership in civic revolution to end the evils of unwanted imperialism by the strong against the weak?  This is how Mr. Gandhi and Dr. King saw their civic educational challenge:  "One thing we have endeavoured to observe most scrupulously, namely, never to depart from the strictest facts and, in dealing with the difficult questions that have arisen during the year, we hope that we have used the utmost moderation possible under the circumstances. Our duty is very simple and plain. We want to serve the community, and in our own humble way to serve the Empire. We believe in the righteousness of the cause, which it is our privilege to espouse. We have an abiding faith in the mercy of the Almighty God, and we have firm faith in the British Constitution. That being so, we should fail in our duty if we wrote anything with a view to hurt. Facts we would always place before our readers, whether they are palatable or not, and it is by placing them constantly before the public in their nakedness that the misunderstanding… can be removed."  -  Mohandas K. Gandhi, Indian Opinion(1 October 1903)  “‘A time comes when silence is betrayal.’ That time has come for us in relation to Vietnam.  The truth of these words is beyond doubt but the mission to which they call us is a most difficult one. Even when pressed by the demands of inner truth, men do not easily assume the task of opposing their government's policy, especially in time of war. Nor does the human spirit move without great difficulty against all the apathy of conformist thought within one's own bosom and in the surrounding world.”  - Dr. Martin Luther King, “Beyond Vietnam: A Time to Break Silence.”  I do not place myself in Gandhi and Dr. King’s company, and I assume that neither do you. But I do suggest that We the People are like in spirit and will stand for Revolution in the face of War Criminals and destruction of trillions of families’ and children’s dollars.  In consideration for Revolution, you should also know that the King family's civil trial found the US government guilty of Dr. King's assassination. US Corporate media refused to cover the trial or interview Dr. King's wife. His family's opinion is that the US government murdered Dr. King to end his protests against unlawful US wars and his call to end poverty. In conclusion: The century within which we were all born witnessed over 250 million human beings slaughtered by governments in war and atrocities. War is used as a continuous “foreign policy,” with the US in present egregious and unlawful abuse of their superpower status. History will judge when Americans developed the education competence to evolve beyond endless wars.  You can help make that time now. Revolution in the steps from Gandhi and MLK are simple to understand: Because the facts are so easily verified and all on our side, education of anyone and everyone is one component. This will become a sophisticated and multi-front campaign similar to the Civil Rights Movement. Create public and political will. Gandhi demanded political independence of India. Dr. King demanded equal treatment under the law. Millions of Americans informed of the facts can and should demand an end of unlawful war, return of Constitutional rights, and the end of parasitic criminal fraud of trillions of our dollars every year. The fact of "emperor has no clothes" obvious UNLAWFUL war is a trigger for those of us with Oaths to defend the US Constitution to refuse all orders for unlawful war and act for the arrest of those who issue them. An elegant way for peaceful surrender of War Criminals and “banksters.” I’m a leader for the education and promotion of Truth and Reconciliation to exchange full factual disclosure and return of public assets for no prosecution. Those who decline will be prosecuted after the window of Truth and Reconciliation closes.   There are related issues with war, economic oligarchy, and propaganda that can and should be included in this proposal for Revolution. To keep this paper relatively brief, I’ve kept the topics limited. These related issues include torture, unlimited detention, extrajudicial assassination (all of which are unconstitutionally applied, including to American citizens), unaccountable elections on electronic voting machines that exit poll data prove are "fixed," and more; all or which cannot exist in a society worthy of the title, “free.”   "We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights, that among these are life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. That to secure these rights, governments are instituted among men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed.  That whenever any form of government becomes destructive to these ends, it is the right of the people to alter or to abolish it, and to institute new government, laying its foundation on such principles and organizing its powers in such form, as to them shall seem most likely to effect their safety and happiness. Prudence, indeed, will dictate that governments long established should not be changed for light and transient causes; and accordingly all experience hath shown that mankind are more disposed to suffer, while evils are sufferable, than to right themselves by abolishing the forms to which they are accustomed.  But when a long train of abuses and usurpations, pursuing invariably the same object evinces a design to reduce them under absolute despotism, it is their right, it is their duty, to throw off such government, and to provide new guards for their future security. --Such has been the patient sufferance of these colonies; and such is now the necessity which constrains them to alter their former systems of government."  - US Declaration of Independence. July 4, 1776.    




4
comments

























Older Posts

Home




Subscribe to:
Posts (Atom)







Twitter














Followers






















translate






























Subscribe







Posts




















                Atom
              










Posts












All Comments




















                Atom
              










All Comments



















contact

We read all emails sent to us, but are too busy to respond to many.  We greatly appreciate the feedback and leads.
If you wish to reproduce any essays from this site:  You may reproduce our essays as long as you give proper attribution (Washington's Blog) and provide a link to our site.

Click Here For Free Financial And Energy Widgets
Please Enable Javascript for this Oil Price widget to work
Please Enable Javascript for this Oil Price widget to work
Please Enable Javascript for this Oil Price widget to work
Please Enable Javascript for this Oil Price widget to work
Please Enable Javascript for this Oil Price widget to work
Please Enable Javascript for this Oil Price widget to work
Please Enable Javascript for this Oil Price widget to work











Blog Archive






▼ 

2011
(528)



▼ 

September
(7)

There Are More Slaves Today Than At Any Point In H...
Despite The Ongoing Efforts To Cover Up The Scope ...
Labor Day Has Been Rendered Completely Meaningless...
When the Rich Get Richer, It DOESN'T Raise All Boa...
Back In The Saddle
Full-Blown Civil War Erupts On Wall Street: As Rea...
Extreme Weather: Severe Flooding Hits Gulf Coast; ...








          ► 
        


August
(99)

Open proposal for US revolution: expose corporate ...
US or the War Machine
Lies, War, and Empire: NATO’s “Humanitarian Imperi...
Why My 9-Year-Old Neice Is Smarter Than Our Genius...
Open proposal for US revolution: end parasitic and...
Playing the “Get into Saudi Arabia free card”
Open proposal for US revolution: end unlawful wars...
Open proposal for US revolution: end unlawful wars...
Drowning Government in a Hurricane (Why Wait for a...
The Chopping Block?
The Same Type of Corruption and Collusion Between ...
Gandhi on ending injustice: Speak the truth becaus...
"The First Recorded Word For ‘Freedom’ In Any Huma...
"Cyclical Climatic Changes DOUBLE The Risk Of Civi...
Today's Weather Report ... For The Sun
BP's Gulf Oil Well Is Leaking Again: "It’s A Dead ...
Guest Posts
The Next Scientific Frontier: Sun-Earth Interactio...
Scientific Experiment By Top Laboratory Shows that...
Can Solar Activity Cause Earthquakes, Volcanoes an...
It's Official: Human Activity Can Cause Earthquake...
Web Design Help
East Coast Earthquakes Feel Stronger Than Same-Siz...
Why Gold Tanked Today: CME and Shanghai Gold Excha...
Strong Earthquake Very Close to Virginia Nuclear P...
“The Gap Between Americans Who Want To Govern Them...
"Just 12% Of Likely U.S. Voters Believe The United...
Forget the Banks ... "If You Take Households In To...
Radiation Will Pollute the Area Around Chernobyl F...
Libya War: Gaddafi Falls ... But Why Did We Invade...
I-N-S-O-L-V-E-N-T: Citigroup Was In Debt To The Fe...
By Choosing The Big Banks Over The Little Guy, The...
Photos: Oil At BP's Deepwater Horizon Gulf Spill S...
D.C. is Like a Separate Country ... One Which Coul...
What Wordpress Template Should We Use?
You Are NOT Authorized to Watch This Video ... Do ...
Fukushima Worker On Camera: “The Holes And Cracks ...
Amazing Science Breakthroughs
Corruption At The Top Leads To Lawlessness By The ...
Ron Paul "Just Think Of All Those Troops Spending ...
The Real Reason the SEC Has Been Shredding Documen...
"The Whole World Will Be Exposed From The Radiatio...
Gold Will Crash As Soon As the Economy Stabilizes....








          ► 
        


July
(77)







          ► 
        


June
(65)







          ► 
        


May
(62)







          ► 
        


April
(58)







          ► 
        


March
(54)







          ► 
        


February
(59)







          ► 
        


January
(47)









          ► 
        


2010
(577)





          ► 
        


December
(48)







          ► 
        


November
(52)







          ► 
        


October
(52)







          ► 
        


September
(46)







          ► 
        


August
(38)







          ► 
        


July
(45)







          ► 
        


June
(36)







          ► 
        


May
(63)







          ► 
        


April
(58)







          ► 
        


March
(56)







          ► 
        


February
(41)







          ► 
        


January
(42)









          ► 
        


2009
(996)





          ► 
        


December
(62)







          ► 
        


November
(79)







          ► 
        


October
(89)







          ► 
        


September
(90)







          ► 
        


August
(70)







          ► 
        


July
(91)







          ► 
        


June
(89)







          ► 
        


May
(91)







          ► 
        


April
(90)







          ► 
        


March
(115)







          ► 
        


February
(76)







          ► 
        


January
(54)









          ► 
        


2008
(381)





          ► 
        


December
(67)







          ► 
        


November
(70)







          ► 
        


October
(72)







          ► 
        


September
(63)







          ► 
        


August
(40)







          ► 
        


July
(24)







          ► 
        


June
(12)







          ► 
        


May
(25)







          ► 
        


April
(7)







          ► 
        


March
(1)









          ► 
        


2007
(1)





          ► 
        


December
(1)

















Wikinvest Wire



















Who Are We?











About


Steve Keen
TonyTheArt
Dainin
davidswanson
Jim Q
Reggie Middleton
Carl Herman
AndrewGavinMarshall
David DeGraw
Washington's Blog
Ellen














 





Web design and SEO: SEOBook.com






















































