Retired Chinese general warns China is planning a suprise missile attack on U.S.  | The Extinction Protocol: 2012 and beyond






The Extinction Protocol: 2012 and beyond


2012 and Earthchanges News events



Skip to content
HomeLearn more: The Extinction Protocol book







← Second giant ice island set to break off Greenland glacier
Virginia shaken again: More than 20 aftershocks from 5.8 East Coast earthquake now felt →


Retired Chinese general warns China is planning a suprise missile attack on U.S.

Posted on September 1, 2011 by The Extinction Protocol 

September 1, 2011 – BEIJING – A retired Chinese general recently revealed that his country might be planning a surprise missile attack on the United States. The public comment of Xu Guangyu came in response to WikiLeaks revelations that last year Washington had warned its allies beforehand of China’s test of a missile interceptor. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, in a classified cable sent last January 9th, instructed American embassies in Australia, Britain, Canada, and New Zealand to notify those countries of upcoming Chinese launches two days later. The cable included details of the launch sites for the interceptor and the target, the models of the missiles, the purpose of the test, and the test date. Yesterday, Hong Kong’s South China Morning Post carried comments from Xu, now at the China Arms Control and Disarmament Association, to the effect that American satellites would have detected activity at the launch sites but that some of the information in the cables, specifically the types of missiles and the day of the tests must have come from a source on the ground. WikiLeaks’s release of this cable, revealing one or more American spies in China’s strategic missile corps, is perhaps the website’s most significant compromise of US security to date. The Hong Kong paper noted that Xu said that “if China could no longer keep secret its missile launches, it would not be able to launch a surprise attack on the US.” Is China really in the process of planning to destroy the American homeland with a preemptive barrage of nuclear-tipped missiles? Xu’s comment, of course, is not proof, but it does reveal that Chinese flag officers are thinking about doing so. Unfortunately, Xu’s hostile sentiment fits within a worrisome trend. Especially since the beginning of last year, there has been a series of belligerent comments from China’s generals, admirals, and colonels, some talking about war with the US in the near future. Last February, for instance, Colonel Meng Xianging said the People’s Liberation Army would qualitatively upgrade its capabilities to force a showdown on US policy toward Taiwan within the decade when we’re strong enough for a hand-to-hand fight with the US. Given the bellicose statements coming from some of China’s military brass along with China’s well-documented aggressive behavior in the South China Sea and other peripheral waters it is difficult to imagine how Western observers can deny China’s intentions and the clashes that lie ahead. Thank you, General Xu. –World Affairs Journal August 30, 2011
For the world, this may come as a surprise but to those of you who have my book- you can clearly see how my warnings about China planning a surprise nuclear strike on the U.S. are now being reported.  See Chapter: The Apocalypse Chess Pieces, China

Advertisement

Share this:ShareStumbleUponRedditDiggLinkedInFacebookEmailLike this:LikeBe the first to like this post. 

						This entry was posted in Civilizations unraveling, Dark Ages, Earth Changes, Earth Watch, Economic upheaval, social unrest, terrorism, New World Order -Dystopia- War. Bookmark the permalink.											


← Second giant ice island set to break off Greenland glacier
Virginia shaken again: More than 20 aftershocks from 5.8 East Coast earthquake now felt →


52 Responses to Retired Chinese general warns China is planning a suprise missile attack on U.S.




 Jerome Escaño says: 

			September 1, 2011 at 3:22 pm 
A mystic friend told me from one of our conversations that China should not be trusted, for one good reason… He clearly stated that the ancient symbol of China – the Dragon, represents Satan… I am doubtful about his idea but somehow he has a point…


Reply 





 sitgoodboydinkle says: 

			September 1, 2011 at 4:18 pm 
Communist China has been the mortal enemy of the United States since the day it became Communist in 1949 and then later joined with the old Soviet Union and vowed to destroy us.  Now since we were stupid enough to send them our factories and to let them build our electronics, insuring our missiles and planes wont work at a critical time. We are toast.  Thank you Republican leaders, and Republican corporations for selling out your country.


Reply 





 J.M says: 

			September 1, 2011 at 5:04 pm 
Well it seems TPTB deem the United States useful no more.   The U.S. created the Chinese monster we see today, first with its unlawful intervention in the Pacific in the WWII in which it abetted the communist monster and betrayed Chang Kai Sek´s army condemning them to exile in Taiwan.   Later on it would FEED the monster transferring its very wealth and know-how to China.    So it seems the chickens have come home to roost.








 Dennis E. says: 

			September 1, 2011 at 9:04 pm 
and preisdent clinton that enabled them to the information to modifiy  their bulky nuclear warheads. It was reported in the newspapers that he allowed them access to some of our high tech facilities. there is no difference between a republican or democrat in my opinion.
That is my opinion, we’ve been sold down the creek.








 LoneRider says: 

			September 2, 2011 at 3:41 am 
Seems to me your Magical President Obama’s administration, has allowed GE to move its imaging and avionics technology to China. At that was just the last 2 weeks.










 Minnie says: 

			September 3, 2011 at 2:47 pm 
I’m pretty sure Americans are the evil one here.  We have so many countries that hate us and our sick and tired of us trying to take control of the whole damn planet.  Other countries want us out of their business, off their land, and to mind our own business…it’s not even funny.


Reply 







 RitaBook says: 

			September 1, 2011 at 3:40 pm 
I have thought for years that China would be our undoing, ever since Nixon’s “ice breaking” visit and the parade of presidential visits since.
FYI: The WAJ article that you referenced will not open.  All the other stories do.


Reply 





 The Extinction Protocol says: 

			September 1, 2011 at 3:59 pm 
It’s the website being swamped by traffic flow as the article just hit a lot of the wires. I changed the link to put you on the main landing page so you can index the article and by-pass that traffic flow. 
Thanks
Alvin


Reply 







 EuroAtlantic says: 

			September 1, 2011 at 3:54 pm 
well, it’s not a surprise anymore…


Reply 





 westvirginiapatriot says: 

			September 1, 2011 at 4:10 pm 
I remember the movie “Maximum Overdrive” where all these electronic gadgets came to life (so what else would you expect from Stephen King). Now I’m thinking that it is very plausible…not as the murderous bots, as was depicted, but as big brother spies. Think of the infiltration they already have in our society—in EVERY home. Maybe it’s time to trash all of electronic gadgets!


Reply 





 Mandy says: 

			September 1, 2011 at 4:22 pm 
Alvin, 
I have been burdened about China recently. My husband and I have just “woken” up to what is really going on in the world and we started wondering why we really don’t hear anything in the mainstream news about China. I’m starting to see why…
Thank you for not inundating us with advertisements all over your site. I’m buying your book today and I can’t wait to read it.


Reply 





 Misia says: 

			September 3, 2011 at 1:57 am 
The reason you don’t hear anything, is because China is China. I’ve just come back from there, and I can tell you that even the people there, don’t know what is happening..
Take the train crash for example..


Reply 







 Irene Carmichael says: 

			September 1, 2011 at 6:23 pm 
This doesn’t surprise me either. I have never trusted them. Remember the sighting of the missile off the coast of California that the government said wasn’t a missile?  Yeah, right. 
China also has a role in Biblical end-times prophecy. Revelation 16:12 says “And the sixth angel poured out his vial upon the great river Euphrates; and the water thereof was dried up, that the way of the kings of the east might be prepared.” 
The birth pains are beginning to come faster and harder. We all need to make sure we are ready for whatever is coming. Just as the Old Testament prophets foretold the coming of the Messiah, Jesus promised He would be returning, not as a defenseless infant, but as a Mighty judge. And I believe He is coming soon.
Be blessed and Maranatha


Reply 





 Suzanne says: 

			September 2, 2011 at 12:38 am 
You are right Irene. Times are growing more dangerous day to day. It is time to look up because the sky is about to rumble and a Savior is about to come!!


Reply 







 Michele B says: 

			September 1, 2011 at 6:46 pm 
I am learning so much from Alvin’s book. Previously this news about China would not have seemed at all plausible to me. But now it makes perfect sense and fits perfectly amid the “grand scheme” of things we see unfolding every day on our global chessboard. Did someone say “checkmate”?


Reply 





 RainMan says: 

			September 1, 2011 at 8:58 pm 
Right, checkmate is part of the “end-game”


Reply 







 Sheila S says: 

			September 1, 2011 at 7:24 pm 
I have an old college roommate that lives in Guam.  She says the Chinese are very active in the waters there, flexing their muscles and even “taking over” some very small islands.  People have been having visions of the Chinese invading the United States for years now – even back when we were way more worried about the USSR than China.


Reply 





 The Extinction Protocol says: 

			September 1, 2011 at 7:59 pm 
China has been quite open and adamant about what it feels is its destiny to christen the arrival of 中国世纪, the Chinese century, where Chinese culture will be the world’s leader. From this point forward, we should be prepared for the world to change instantaneously and in dramatic and unexpected fashion in a moment’s notice. One of the U.S.’s rationale behind developing a hypersonic missile program that was capable of speeds of mach 20 and having the ability to strike anywhere in the world in 1 hour is to have an effective retaliatory response weapon and possible deterrent to unilateral threats from countries anywhere in the world.


Reply 





 Dennis E. says: 

			September 1, 2011 at 11:02 pm 
From information I have read, as far back as 1952, tawain has been promised to the chinese.


Reply 







 nitewarlok says: 

			September 1, 2011 at 8:31 pm 
holly freakin chicken scratch,,if its possible to step back and listen or read to how you are talking you would understand as to why the goverments have chosen not to tell the public the truth..i dont agree with them,,but step back,,to spread panic is very very easy,,sure we are in the end times,,but if u have not accepted Christ as your Savious when you were called then my heart breaks for you,,but you chose the world,,for those of you who know the Lord stop guessing at who is who for you do not know for a certainty who is who,not yet you dont,,and because i know you dont for certain all you are doing by your emphasis is creating panic,,so i honestly suggest that you temper yourselves..this is only my opinion and after all what do i truly know.with all the love i have in me for each and every one of you.    may He Bless you Mightily


Reply 





 RitaBook says: 

			September 2, 2011 at 12:34 am 
Ah, yes, ignorance is bliss!


Reply 







 RitaBook says: 

			September 1, 2011 at 8:52 pm 
So, if the world is destroyed by mega earthquakes, super volcanoes, cme’s, emp’s, comets, asteroids, pestilence, floods, fires, hunger, etc:  what will be left for the Chinese century?


Reply 





 The Extinction Protocol says: 

			September 1, 2011 at 9:09 pm 
China’s government doesn’t believe in biblical prophecy or 2012…they censor all such websites. In 2009, many Chinese citizens contacted me on a 2012 forum at risk of peril to their own lives to know more about Earthchanges. Their transmissions were brief before government authorities restricted their access to such information. No matter what happens, China indoctrinates the masses to believe in the ultimate triumph of the Party over all adversities and enemies. Now you know why China erects so many dams and cities in high-risk seismic zones.


Reply 





 idiotbox says: 

			September 1, 2011 at 10:03 pm 
Sorry, the term was Ghost Cities, darn smartphones aren’t made for the fat fingered.








 The Extinction Protocol says: 

			September 1, 2011 at 10:06 pm 
Thanks…








 RitaBook says: 

			September 2, 2011 at 12:28 am 
Do they restrict your book being sold there as well?








 The Extinction Protocol says: 

			September 2, 2011 at 12:48 am 
I didn’t find it on the Amazon site for China and imagine its a banned book for sure.










 RainMan says: 

			September 1, 2011 at 9:19 pm 
Their Banking on all those things not happening.


Reply 







 Ronald s.Hand says: 

			September 1, 2011 at 8:56 pm 
Don’t blame the Chinese..  Don’t blame Nixon either.  We have within this country, USA a death wish and it is coming fast.  We do everything we can think of to make friends of nations that can’t figure why we are so trusting and fawning before them.  But, some nations know what this  really is: a handout to puppet dictators who do what we say.  Against whom?  The nations that have not yet gotten into bed with us.  But, the world wide web has changed everything.  Now we all live in a fishbowl of transparency.  World leaders know each others Buisness, and can’t hide much anymore.


Reply 





 RitaBook says: 

			September 2, 2011 at 12:31 am 
Who’s been fooled?  I don’t think the countries that the US has dipped their fingers into have been blinded to what’s going on.  It seems that the folks at home seem to be the only ones in the dark.


Reply 







 Mahler says: 

			September 1, 2011 at 9:07 pm 
Sorry folks, It would be stupid for China to destroy the biggest market they have. China already owns America, why use military weapons to destroy a country when it can be done with economy ? Just think about it…
USA will hit China first, not the contrary. America is economically fu*+-up, war is, for many political nutheads in DC, a very keynesian way to “reboot” economy.


Reply 





 nickk0 says: 

			September 1, 2011 at 10:21 pm 
Mahler, what if the day comes, when the US is no longer their ‘biggest market’ ?? 
What then ?? 
- Nick


Reply 





 Pagan says: 

			September 2, 2011 at 3:51 am 
Agreed. Here in Australia, the land of uranium, iron ore, rare earth minerals & such, our Government has started to politically drift slowly away from the US, our staunchest ally since WWII  – & gravitate toward China who craves what our country produces. To me, this is more alarming than anything.
Blessings












 Dennis E. says: 

			September 1, 2011 at 9:12 pm 
For most people who follow prophecy and who wonder and ponder where is the USA in End Time events, this could be the answer to your question.
I wonder myself if this this is the alert  coming to past that David Wilkerson wrote about?
In that: he had a vision of a missile attack (submarine?) in conjunction with a cyber attack and very few of our anti-missiles(stop and laugh here)were able to be launched.
The USA used to have a good anti-missile defense in the 60′s and part of the 70′s until MAD came into existence.
Something to think about


Reply 





 RainMan says: 

			September 1, 2011 at 9:55 pm 
That’s the scary part, a good missile defence is not a perfect one, say 10% got through on both sides, it’s still game over.


Reply 







 RainMan says: 

			September 1, 2011 at 9:15 pm 
Let’s hope the Mutually Assured Destruction (MAD) scenario will play out as it did with USA-Russia stand-off, why can’t people (minority) just look at the big picture? Human nature again, power, greed etc. I’m sure if the general population (99.9%…a guess?) of China were allowed to freely voice there views over the net -which their not- they would be much like ourselves, scared and in disbelief.


Reply 





 Dennis E. says: 

			September 1, 2011 at 11:21 pm 
Hi RainMan: Dennis E: Here. Agreed with everthing you wrote.
Uh, Been doing some reading over the years on Nicolas Tesla and from his dicoveries
certain countries allegedly have been working to have the capability to enclase a city,
plane,ship, in a electric-static type shield or it was described as placing a dome over a city.. If you ever watched star trek and term “shields up”, well it seems that it could be more fact than fiction. From what I’ve been able to read, you can’t fire through it or travel through it without damage.  It is allegedly reported that the russians are light years ahead of us in research.
So, a country can scale down its nuclear stockpile because if a country can deploy that type of defense, I ponder the type of offensive weapons it has?
It was just posted on this site that China was developing pulse weapons to destroy
our carrier groups.
Good for thought.
PS—-Don’t laugh.   In the 60′s when Cpt Kirk was talking on his communicator, who would think in the 21st century we would be speaking into comunicator type phones?


Reply 





 RainMan says: 

			September 2, 2011 at 1:41 am 
Then we have the Coronal Mass Ejections which could disable everything electronic..
“Scotty the engineer to Cpt. Kirk, Scotty to Cpt. Kirk…hello..hello……………hello?..”












 John R. says: 

			September 1, 2011 at 11:56 pm 
N. Korea and Iran are desperately seeking long range technology and China is working with both of them. So to think that China isn’t capable of attacking the U.S. Would be a understatement. The only reason that any country will not try to occupy our Country at this time is our 2nd amendment rights.  China once said they would never invade us is because to many people here own guns. So think about it folks. Don’t allow our government to take our 2nd amendment rights.


Reply 





 RainMan says: 

			September 2, 2011 at 1:54 am 
“China once said”..was that before they had nukes?
Can’t see hand held firearms deterring a nuke exchange, God forbid.  We are going to end up with bows and arrows, if were lucky to be alive.


Reply 







 Rohan says: 

			September 2, 2011 at 12:32 am 
If China did attack the US, it wouldn’t stand much of a chance once the US, India and other Asian countries retaliate(of which most are allies of the US) .


Reply 





 nickk0 says: 

			September 2, 2011 at 3:17 am 
And that would be one Hell of a war….. Of ‘biblical proportions’, no ??
- Nick


Reply 







 Gen says: 

			September 2, 2011 at 1:28 am 
Excerpt from “the Naked Communist”
W. Cleon Skousen
“Importance of the Psychological War
The biggest mistake of the West has been allowing itself to drift into a state of mental stagnation, apathy and inaction. In some circles, motivations of patriotism, loyalty and the traditional dream of “freedom for all men” have been lying dormant or have been paralyzed by a new kind of strange thinking. Authorities say there is an urgent need for a revolutionary change in our state of mind.
What is wrong with our “state of mind?”
First and foremost, we have been thinking the way the Communists want us to think. Our founding fathers would be alarmed to learn how confused many of our people have become over such fundamental problems as coexistence, disarmament, free trade, the United Nations, recognition Red China, and a host of related problems. Instead of maintaining a state of intellectual vigilance, we have taken Communist slogans as the major premises for too many of our conclusions. Let us go down a list of current strategy goals which the Communists and their fellow travelers are seeking to achieve. These are all part of the campaign to soften America for the final takeover. It should be kept in mind that many loyal Americans are working for these same objectives because they are not aware that these objectives are designed to destroy us.
[45] Current Communist Goals
1. U.S. acceptance of coexistence as the only alternative to atomic war.
2. U.S. willingness to capitulate in preference to engaging in atomic war.
3. Develop the illusion that total disarmament by the United States would be a demonstration of moral strength.
4. Permit free trade between all nations regardless of Communist affiliation and regardless of whether or not items could be used for war.
5. Extension of long-term loans to Russia and Soviet Satellites.
6. Provide American aid to all nations regardless of Communist domination.
7. Grant recognition of Red China. Admission of Red China to the U.N.
8. Set up East and West Germany as separate states in spite of Khrushchev’s promise in 1955 to settle the Germany question by free elections under supervision of the U.N.
9. Prolong the conferences to ban atomic tests because the U.S. has agreed to suspend tests as long as negotiations are in progress.
10. Allow all Soviet satellites individual representation in the U.N.
11. Promote the U.N. as the only hope for mankind. If its charter is rewritten, demand that it be set up as one-world government with its own independent armed forces. (Some Communist leaders believe the world can be taken over as easily by the U.N. as by Moscow. Sometimes these two centers compete with each other as they are now doing in the Congo.)
12. Resist any attempt to outlaw the Communist Party.
13. Do away with all loyalty oaths.
14. Continue giving Russia access to the U.S. Patent office.
15. Capture one or both of the political parties in the United States…  “


Reply 





 Gen says: 

			September 2, 2011 at 2:03 am 
“The Naked Communist”
16 to 45 on this link
http://www.uhuh.com/nwo/communism/comgoals.htm


Reply 





 RainMan says: 

			September 2, 2011 at 2:06 am 
Nobody wins, it’s MAD.


Reply 





 RitaBook says: 

			September 2, 2011 at 8:29 am 
Aware but still asleep?  What’s the use of knowing what’s coming and just passively accepting it like everything else we’ve accepted so far.  Big bad wolf is coming to blow down our straw house but not to worry.  We’ve got an out.  I’d rise up and shout “We’re not going to take it any more” but it’s too much trouble.


Reply 





 Dennis E. says: 

			September 2, 2011 at 11:17 am 
Well, China, it is reported is one of the kings of the east that marches on Israel during the time of the reign of the anti-christ as part of the 200,000,000 man military force. It is also during this time period that the anti-christ is seeking to destroy the jewish people for refusing to worship him as god and this invasion, hinders him from that.
So, it has a future it seems.
God bless the ep family.


Reply 





 Terri Lockmiller Jacobus says: 

			September 2, 2011 at 1:49 pm 
America owes China more debt than we can possibly pay back. It’s obvious they run many aspects of our country and our Presidents cower to them. In fact, if China did not bail the world markets out America would have totally collapsed. They own our country through commerce they own most our bonds.  They own the majority of our debts, our government and other countries are now at the mercy of China. Greedy Corporations’ gave them our factories and jobs- all in the name of profit! How could American’s not notice China has stolen all technology, industry and inventions? The Chinese are masters of reproducing and stealing designs, making it cheap & quick. People accused me of being crazy when I told them China has been chipping our TV’s, toys, movies, technology for many years- and designing it to be addictive and its making everyone into electronic vegetables- why they filter apocalyptic sites- to keep their populace in a better mind frame. They are disciplined in martial arts and are loyal and super intelligent. China also stole technology from Japan- reversed engineered it and starting using it in the toy industry in the early 90’s that is capable of mind control, they started using it on our children long ago- why children and adults are addicted to electronics, obese, lethargic and depressant and sit endlessly staring into televisions, cell phones and computers. They have been testing missiles and shooting up star wars type weapons for decades. I forget the actual statistics but I believe their population will double within a few decades leaving them in need of LAND; estimations are they will need the equivalent of two or three earth’s resources. What we have is plenty of land, to fill their population explosion. They also have brilliant scientists who most likely are trying to figure out how to mutate genetic virus’s- that wipes out every other race, likely their plan is to slowly take over the whole world. If we upset them, and don’t behave perhaps they will bomb and try to take over sooner, the only reason they haven’t is that we will blow them up and make it the end of the world. They have already taken jobs from ALL countries, and are in the process of buying up all — of the world’s most valuable resources! Why we have a worldwide depression while they grow richer, China is buying and building at a staggering rate. Remember they invented fireworks first, the Chinese love all this religious apocalyptic thinking it just feeds into their plan, because the world just sits on their butts & hands saying the Lord will come to their rescue quoting scripture & and freaking out- from mind control, doing nothing… waiting for Jesus to come or the world to end or pretending none of this is real… The good Lord helps them who helps themselves- isn’t it time the world boycotted Chinese exports and imports or is it that we don’t make- anything but food and are statistically self absorbed  e-idiots addicted to electronics and mind pollution. Read the label “made in China” they already own the so called free -world.


Reply 





 RitaBook says: 

			September 2, 2011 at 7:09 pm 
Which replaces the “made in Japan” labels that everyone used to think was junk.


Reply 





 Dennis E. says: 

			September 3, 2011 at 12:45 pm 
Did you know that there is a reported 64 million plus surplus vacant housing in China, built in what has been described as ghost cities?
Good article, very informative, very truthful. Even the USA has supplied them with military tech.
But, they will not have the last say.


Reply 







 NickK0 says: 

			September 2, 2011 at 5:54 pm 
Posted on Yahoo today:
http://news.yahoo.com/india-says-ship-near-vietnam-warned-china-110603829.html;_ylt=Apr09Vh9kopKdhx15y89PUi1qHQA;_ylu=X3oDMTRjczNmbmNkBGNjb2RlA3JkdG9wMjAwcG9vbARtaXQDTmV3cyBmb3IgeW91BHBrZwNjZWJjYjQ5ZC1hY2EzLTM2NjgtOGExOC05NzYyY2IwYzY0OTYEcG9zAzUEc2VjA25ld3NfZm9yX3lvdQR2ZXIDMmY5ZjJkZTAtZDU2MS0xMWUwLWJhYjMtMDE5MzIyMzFkOTZm;_ylg=X3oDMTJwOWY4MzdpBGludGwDdXMEbGFuZwNlbi11cwRwc3RhaWQDZWFmYmIwZTctNDZkYy0zZGZmLTgwZDEtNWIyYzc5M2Q1ZDExBHBzdGNhdAMEcHQDc3RvcnlwYWdlBHRlc3QD;_ylv=3
Also:
http://news.yahoo.com/philippines-vows-defend-south-china-sea-claims-102146267.html;_ylt=Atb7Je0uIhkr3odK3Bhi76ew73QA;_ylu=X3oDMTFxbGs3Y3Z1BG1pdANJbmZpbml0ZSBCcm93c2UgVGV4dARwb3MDMQRzZWMDTWVkaWFJbmZpbml0ZUJyb3dzZUxpc3Q-;_ylg=X3oDMTMxaHRqN3RrBGludGwDdXMEbGFuZwNlbi11cwRwc3RhaWQDY2ViY2I0OWQtYWNhMy0zNjY4LThhMTgtOTc2MmNiMGM2NDk2BHBzdGNhdANidXNpbmVzcwRwdANzdG9yeXBhZ2UEdGVzdAM-;_ylv=3
- Nick


Reply 





 The Extinction Protocol says: 

			September 2, 2011 at 8:55 pm 
Thanks for the stories NickKO


Reply 






Leave a Reply Cancel reply



Enter your comment here...





Guest
Log In
Log In
Log In









Email (required) (Not published)



Name (required)



Website











Please log in to WordPress.com to post a comment to your blog.













 You are commenting using your Twitter account. (Log Out)












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. (Log Out)




Connecting to %s



 Notify me of follow-up comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.







 








Search for:



  Recent Posts 
Middle East powder keg: Senior Israeli General warns danger of regional war involving WMDs growing
6.6 magnitude earthquake strikes NW of Lake Toba super-volcano caldera
Somalia famine: UN warns of 750,000 deaths in coming months
European markets hammered as debt fears resurface in Eurozone
High winds and dry conditions sends Texas up in flames- 2 dead, 60 wildfires raging

Archives 
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010

Categories 
11:11 signature encoded

2012

Acquatic Ecosystem crash

Catastrophic Insurance losses mount

Celebrities and the Apocalypse

Civilizations unraveling

Climate unraveling

Cloudburst storms with flashflooding

Comets

Commentary

Dark Ages

Disappearing Lakes

Dust Storm

Earth Changes

Earth Watch

Earthquake Omens?

Economic upheaval, social unrest, terrorism

Environmental Threat

Extinction Protocol Exclusive Editorial

Extreme Weather Event

Famine Threat

Fireballs, Meteor or Asteroid

Food chain unraveling

Forecast book quotation

Future coding

High-risk potential hazard zone

Land fissures, cracks, sinkholes

Landslide & geological deformation

Lithosphere collapse & fisssure

Mass animal deaths

Monthly lead post

New World Order -Dystopia- War

Pack Animal Aggression

Pest Explosions

Pestilence Watch

Planetary Tremor Event

Potential Earthchange hotspot

Prophecies referenced

Seismic tremors

Signs of Magnetic Field weakening

Solar Event

Space Watch

Strange high tides & freak waves

Unprecedented Flooding

Unsolved Mystery

Ususual animal behavior for disaster

Volcanic Eruption

Volcano Watch

Wildfires


Email Subscription

Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 1,315 other followers









EP: Live Twitter Feed
Israeli General warns danger of regional war with WMDs growing: http://t.co/4YIrf15 -The Extinction Protocol...4 hours ago
6.6 magnitude earthquake strikes just NW of Lake Toba super-volcano caldera: http://t.co/NA1NKCZ -The Extinction Protocol...5 hours ago
UN warns famine could kill 750,000 in coming months in Somalia: http://t.co/02T0qRV -The Extinction Protocol...8 hours ago

 



The Extinction Protocol: 2012 and beyondThe world will change. Will you be ready?

 






					The Extinction Protocol: 2012 and beyond				


				Theme: Twenty Ten Clone this site at WordPress.com









































































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			






