Open Proposal For US Revolution: Parts 1, 2, 3, and 4. End unlawful wars, all begun with lies; end parasitic and criminal economics; expose corporate media as propaganda « Truth11








Truth11
Welcome to Truth11.com | Dedicated to the truth, true journalism + the truth movement | The articles, ideas, quotes, books + movies are all here for one reason: To let everyone know the truth about our universe. The truth will set us free, it will enlighten, inspire, awaken, + unite us. Armed with the truth united we stand, for peace, freedom, health + happiness for all |






Open Proposal For US Revolution: Parts 1, 2, 3, and 4. End unlawful wars, all begun with lies; end parasitic and criminal economics; expose corporate media as propaganda

Open Proposal For US Revolution

End unlawful wars, criminal economics. 1 of 4


Carl Herman


, “Constitutional governments and aristocracies are commonly overthrown owing to some deviation from justice…the rich, if the constitution gives them power, are apt to be insolent and avaricious… In all well-attempered governments there is nothing which should be more jealously maintained than the spirit of obedience to law, more especially in small matters; for transgression creeps in unperceived and at last ruins the state, just as the constant recurrence of small expenses in time eats up a fortune.” – Aristotle, Politics, Book V. 350 B.C.E.







Revolution is from the Latin, revolutio, a “turn around” of political power.
The US public would revolt and end unlawful US wars and banksters’ rigged-casino fraud if they understood and embraced the central facts of these issues. This four-part series of articles provides the central facts, invites passionate public response, and proposes specific revolutionary public action.
Please share the Revolution to end unlawful US wars and return trillions of our dollars to constructive work. With millions of lives at stake (perhaps billions), there is nothing more important for public participation.
Part 1: Open proposal for US revolution: end unlawful wars, parasitic/criminal economics
Part 2: Open proposal for US revolution: end unlawful wars, all begun with lies
Part 3: Open proposal for US revolution: end parasitic and criminal economics
Part 4: Open proposal for US revolution: expose corporate media as propaganda
These four articles are academic in language and documentation. My citizen advocacy paper, Government by dicts, has additional resources. _______________________________________________________________________________________________
We the People:
Current US wars are unlawful. The US economy is transferring unprecedented wealth of trillions of dollars every year to financial elite within corporate cartels that have captured their government regulators. American public recognition of the facts is crippled by corporate media propaganda.
The factual claims of unlawful wars and transferred trillions from taxpayers to cartels are easily verified as objective data, and substantiated by recognized experts cited in this paper. Indeed, you’ll discover that once obfuscating spin is removed, the facts are not contested and therefore uncontroversial. The breakthrough for US Revolution is causing critical mass of public recognition of the “emperor has no clothes” obvious regarding war and money.
One obstacle is public belief in “American exceptionalism”: “it can’t happen here” or we’re “too modern” for such criminality to exist. This belief exists despite the acknowledged history of every other developed country in the 20th Century engaging in wars of aggressive invasion disguised by government propaganda as “defensive,” and/or wars for empire. Abraham Lincoln empathized with this feeling:
“I know the American People are much attached to their Government;–I know they would suffer much for its sake;–I know they would endure evils long and patiently, before they would ever think of exchanging it for another. Yet, notwithstanding all this, if the laws be continually despised and disregarded, if their rights to be secure in their persons and property, are held by no better tenure than the caprice of a mob, the alienation of their affections from the Government is the natural consequence; and to that, sooner or later, it must come.” – Abraham Lincoln, Lyceum Address, 1838.
This revolution is similar to the Civil Rights Movement if Dr. King had asked you directly for your help, or ending parasitic imperialism if Mohandas Gandhi had asked you personally for your help. How you help is up to you. Look to your heart and mind’s best inspirations. My specific proposals for your consideration are in the last section.
The Civil Rights Movement was a function of transformative civic education with a critical mass of Americans standing for justice under the law. Its foundation was recognition and enforcement of the 1868 legislative victory of the 14th Amendment to the US Constitution that promised equal protection under the law.
Ending wars of choice speciously masked as “defensive” is founded upon the US-initiated 1945 legislative victory of the United Nations Charter (UN). Protection of public money is in multiple statutes with its spirit in the Preamble of the US Constitution.
The benefits of US Revolution against just these two areas of US political, economic, and media “leadership” crimes are literally peace, trillions of dollars annually freed for constructive investment (yes, trillions every year as I’ll explain, document, corroborate from experts known to you, and prove), transformation of how Americans see themselves in the global community, and perhaps the final breakthrough for humanity to close its entire recorded history of political/economic relationships of vicious antagonism with the transformation of realized cooperation, justice, universal dignity, and unprecedented freedom.
The following proposal for Revolution will take about an hour of your time to read and further time to verify factual accuracy of the claims. However, if you’ve spent more than an hour thinking about the broad national civic education breakthrough to end a vicious history of wars and predatory capitalism, this investment of reading is worthwhile. You’re receiving the comprehensive facts and context of 30 years of my academic and professional work.
Revolution requires intellectual integrity and moral courage, citizen. Although I will present factual claims that are objective data anyone can verify, you already know that some people, even with title and positions in leadership, will viciously spin to avoid public scrutiny to the data. High school education provides everyone with the academic training to identify and crush unprofessional attacks that distract attention away from the facts.
Stick to the facts. You can do it.
You’ve heard of Princeton’s Professor Frankfurt’s 2005 bestselling book that describes how Americans are attacked by political and media “leaders” accurately described in the title: On Bullshi*. 
“Bullshitters seek to convey a certain impression of themselves without being concerned about whether anything at all is true. They quietly change the rules governing their end of the conversation so that claims about truth and falsity are irrelevant… bullshi* is a greater enemy of the truth than lies are.”
The alternative, of course, is your declining to participate in this Revolution, and not intervene in the murder of millions of human beings in unlawful war, impoverishment of billions of human beings, theft of trillions of our dollars, and corporate media propaganda to hide these Crimes Against Humanity. “Propaganda” is accurate; their lies of commission and omission are obvious when pointed out, as you shall see in this proposal for Revolution.
You will either rightfully receive appreciation for your role in this Revolution or disappointment for rejecting the opportunity. This will come from your family, friends, and the public. Your acts will also reflect for all time in whatever spiritual spheres of influence exist for human benefit.
I respectfully remind you of the ancient Greek insult for those who chose non-participation in the most important policy areas; so powerful it has remained un-translated in our language today: idiot.
Other transformative leaders have eloquently written of your position of choice. I’ll allow Rene Descartes to speak of the human condition that humans must earn breakthroughs into new light, then present the facts of unlawful US wars and parasitic/criminal US economics.
“But now, after having once and for all put to the test the judgments of men, I here again approach these same questions regarding God and the human mind, and at the same time treat the beginnings of the whole of first philosophy, but in such a way that I have no expectation of approval from the vulgar and no wide audience of readers. Rather, I am an author to none who read these things but those who seriously meditate with me, who have the ability and the desire to withdraw their mind from the senses and at the same time from all prejudices. Such people I know all too well to be few and far between. As to those who do not take care to comprehend the order and series of my reasons but eagerly dispute over single conclusions by themselves, as is the custom for many-those, I say, will derive little benefit from a reading of this treatise; and although perhaps they might find an occasion for quibbling in many spots, still it is not an easy matter for them to raise an objection that is either compelling or worthy of response.” 
- Rene Descartes, Meditations on First Philosophy, 1641, “Preface to the Reader.” Descartes is considered the founder of modern philosophy, the founder of analytical geometry (which led to calculus), and a founder of the Scientific Revolution. Descartes was well-known in his age, but highly controversial. His work was condemned by the Roman Catholic Church in 1633, and his books put on the Index of Prohibited Books in 1663. The University of Utrecht condemned his work in 1643, where he had previously taught.
In respectful appreciation of the hour or so we’ll spend together, please understand the art of my communication to you must balance respect for your time with the requirement for sufficient documentation to prove these disturbing claims beyond any reasonable doubt.
“At first blush, a man is not capable of reporting truth; he must be drenched and saturated with it first.”
- Henry David Thoreau, I to myself: an annotated selection from the journal of Henry D. Thoreau, 1837. Thoreau, like Abraham Lincoln in a speech on the floor of the House of Representatives, recognized the claimed “reasons” for a “defensive war” against Mexico were obvious lies when inspected.







End unlawful wars, all begun with lies. 2 of 4







“Passion has helped us; but can do so no more. It will in future be our enemy. Reason, cold, calculating, unimpassioned reason, must furnish all the materials for our future support and defence.–Let those materials be moulded into general intelligence, sound morality, and in particular, a reverence for the constitution and laws.”
 - Abraham Lincoln, Lyceum Address, 1838.
Revolution is from the Latin, revolutio, a “turn around” of political power.
The US public would revolt and end unlawful US wars and banksters’ rigged-casino fraud if they understood and embraced the central facts of these issues. This four-part series of articles provides the central facts, invites passionate public response, and proposes specific revolutionary public action.


_____________________________________________________________________________________________


US War Crimes: US political leadership is engaged in “emperor has no clothes” unlawful wars that have escalated into Pakistan, Yemen, and with rhetoric to attack Iran that darkly includes use of nuclear weapons in official first-strike policy. The US has abandoned its exercise of power under the US Constitution. Millions of Americans recognize this condition, but as yet a critical mass of Americans either do not recognize the facts or cannot articulate what they perceive into effective civic action. The educational stakes are whether the US will exist as a Constitutional Republic under the law, or as an unlawful empire.
The wars are not close to lawful, and political rhetoric is often in Orwellian opposition to the facts. One of the first academic leaders to explain the obvious is Francis Boyle, Harvard-educated (Ph.D in political science and J.D.) international law professor. His outrage is expressed in the title of his article, Is Bush’s War Illegal? Let us Count the Ways:
“The precedent again goes back to the Nuremberg Judgment of 1946 when the lawyers for the Nazi defendants argued that we, the Nazi government had a right to go to war in self-defense as we saw it, and no one could tell us any differently. Of course that preposterous argument was rejected by Nuremberg. It is very distressing to see some of the highest level of officials of our country making legal arguments that were rejected by the Nuremberg Tribunal.”
Richard Falk, Professor Emeritus of International Law at Princeton:
“An objective observer would reach the conclusion that this Iraq war is a War of Aggression, and as such, that it amounts to a Crime against Peace of the sort for which surviving German leaders were indicted, prosecuted and punished at the Nuremberg trials conducted shortly after the Second World War.”
Secretary General of the United Nations, Kofi Annan responding to the direct question whether the Iraq War is illegal:
“I have indicated it was not in conformity with the UN charter… from the charter point of view, it was illegal.”
In the January 2010 UK Chilcot Inquiry, testimony revealed that all 27 UK Foreign Affairs lawyers were in agreement that the US/UK war was an unlawful War of Aggression. Their unanimous professional legal assessment before the war began was rejected without public disclosure of their work and public debate.
This expert testimony that’s taken a few minutes to read has opened a door for you. The next step is to allow me to walk you through the laws that are being violated: the crystal-clear letter and spirit of the US-created UN Charter is taught and understood in high school history and government classes, linked here in my article, US war laws explained.  Reading that article results in you having the objective facts that these wars aren’t close to legal, and only continue from public ignorance and belief in government/media propaganda. By analogy, anyone observing a baseball game, even if it was their first, when briefed on the strike zone could confidently assert that a pitch thrown ten feet over the batter’s head is definitively a ball. Importantly, this person could also confidently conclude that anyone in an official capacity who called such a pitch a strike would be intentionally lying.
Just as in baseball, the laws of war are meant to be understood clearly by all who care to be educated. The irony of the title in this academic area, political “science,” that has so little regard to the objective facts, calls for a breakthrough in American civic education to force political accountability for the life-and-death facts of war and trillions of dollars of cost. I’m going to introduce more testimony to paint the picture of our US civic education condition, but before I do I must again ask you to follow this link so the laws of war are clear to you. Only by understanding the law can you definitively see the Orwellian condition of unlawful US wars that these experts claim.
Daniel Ellsberg was the top whistle-blower of unlawful US acts in the Vietnam War, including the government-created lies to initiate, continue, and expand the war into neighboring countries. He writes and lectures that current US wars are also all founded upon obvious lies, unlawful, and in direct violation of the US Constitution.
In addition to the illegality of US wars that the evidence so far definitively proves upon examination, we know from the disclosed evidence of our own government that all claims for current US wars were known to be lies as they were told to the American public and not “mistaken intelligence.” Read this to verify.
Let’s support this perspective with history:
President Kennedy warned of the need of public awareness that political leaders will lie on the world stage:
“No treaty, however much it may be to the advantage of all, however tightly it may be worded, can provide absolute security against the risks of deception and evasion.”
President George Washington’s Farewell Address, the culmination of his 45 years of political experience, warned of the primary threat to America as “the impostures of pretended patriotism” from people within our own government who would destroy Constitutional limits in order to obtain tyrannical power:
“All obstructions to the execution of the laws, all combinations and associations, under whatever plausible character, with the real design to direct, control, counteract, or awe the regular deliberation and action of the constituted authorities, are destructive of this fundamental principle, and of fatal tendency.”
Young Abraham Lincoln wrote eloquently to defend the US Constitution from unlawful tyrants within our own government. In Congress, he spoke powerfully and truthfully that the President’s claims for armed attack and invasion of a foreign country were lies. Although war-mongers slurred Lincoln’s name at the time and he lost re-election, history proved his powerful and unpopular words correct in asserting the President of the US was a war-mongering liar:
“I carefully examined the President’s messages, to ascertain what he himself had said and proved upon the point. The result of this examination was to make the impression, that taking for true, all the President states as facts, he falls far short of proving his justification; and that the President would have gone farther with his proof, if it had not been for the small matter, that the truth would not permit him… Now I propose to try to show, that the whole of this, — issue and evidence — is, from beginning to end, the sheerest deception.”
Lincoln also wrote that “pre-emptive” wars, such as the US engages in now in Afghanistan, Iraq, Pakistan, Yemen, Somalia, and threatens for Iran, were lies and “war at pleasure.” Indeed, many of the Founding Fathers’ strongest admonitions were to guard against usurpation of power from within our own government.
General Smedley Butler (and here) was the most honored man in Marine Corps history upon his retirement after 34 years of service around the world, and privy to top secret war planning conversations. He wrote and publicly spoke that the purpose of US wars is never for democracy or national defense, but for political and economic control for millions and billions in profits for America’s leading “bankers, industrialists, and speculators.” General Butler asserted that all US wars is a “racket:” a deception whereby blood money from American taxpayers to “insiders” is always disguised as noble and necessary ventures. Americans are propagandized into paying again and again, and succeeding generations of loyal and gullible men unwittingly serve as the muscle for oligarchic profits. His recommendation to end war was to end its profit motive:
“Let the officers and the directors and the high-powered executives of our armament factories and our munitions makers and our shipbuilders and our airplane builders and the manufacturers of all the other things that provide profit in war time as well as the bankers and the speculators, be conscripted – to get $30 a month, the same wage as the lads in the trenches get.
Let the workers in these plants get the same wages – all the workers, all presidents, all executives, all directors, all managers, all bankers – yes, and all generals and all admirals and all officers and all politicians and all government office holders – everyone in the nation be restricted to a total monthly income not to exceed that paid to the soldier in the trenches!
…Give capital and industry and labor thirty days to think it over and you will find, by that time, there will be no war. That will smash the war racket – that and nothing else.”
It’s important to distinguish General Butler’s expert testimony concerning a subjective analysis of motive from the objective fact of current unlawful US wars proved by the crystal-clear letter of the laws. The strength of my proposal for Revolution to end unlawful wars is based upon the independently verifiable evidence that is as “emperor has no clothes” obvious as a pitch ten feet over the batter’s head is nowhere close to a strike, and as obvious as Jim Crow laws being in violation of the 14th Amendment to the US Constitution.
You’ve read the laws of war to verify this by now, yes?
My point in briefly reviewing testimony of Presidents Kennedy, Washington, Lincoln and General Butler is to communicate that the Revolution to end unlawful wars is not only founded in current law, but among the most important concerns throughout US history to safeguard the nation from propaganda-facilitated unconstitutional acts for oligarchic power and profit.
In irony of our history and law, there is no end in sight to current US propagandized unlawful wars. Fear-mongers’ use of “national security” rhetoric to attack and invade resource-rich and weaker nations continues. For example, in April 2010, Pentagon spokesperson Geoff Morrell officially stated attacking Iran is “always an option,” in Orwellian repudiation to the UN Charter and his Oath of Office to defend the US Constitution that recognizes the UN Charter as having equal force as Constitutional law. As Professor Frankfurt properly assesses: this is bullshi*. We cannot be proud of American government without revolutionizing this condition of official lies that the US can attack, destroy, and kill with our dollars under our American flag upon the dictate (dictatorship) of the leader rather than under the rule of law.
Upon examination, the war-mongering to attack Iran is composed of Orwellian and “emperor has no clothes” obvious lies. Let’s quickly prove one of many: Presidents Bush and Obama, many US Senators and members of Congress, and corporate media say that Iran’s President Ahmadinejad threatens to destroy Israel, to “wipe them off the map.” This is repeated endlessly as a lie of commission believed by most Americans.
However, it is an Orwellian lie verifiable with 5-minutes of reading the October 2005 speech that originated the claim. The clear content and context of the speech is the support of Palestinian resistance against the Israeli government’s violations of their civil and political rights, and the rule of law. Mr. Ahmadinejad uses an historical phrase from an Iranian exiled by Shah Pahlavi to encourage Iranians to persevere against the US-imposed Shah. The one paragraph in question in the speech continues to say that people thought the Shah’s government would never fall, but it did. People thought the USSR’s government would never fall, but it did, as did people think about Saddam’s government. The government of Israel will also fall if they continue their unjust policies toward Palestine.
There is no physical threat to Israel in any rational reading. Zip. Zero. Again, take the five minutes to confirm the American public is under attack from “official” propaganda for their civic education on a life-and-death issue that includes official policy to use nuclear weapons. The NY Times provides the translation, despite their lie of omission of definitive refutation of war rhetoric and call for impeachment of the political War Criminals.
The origin of the “reporting” was propaganda from an apparent faction vying for power within Iran and similar to what preceded the CIA-orchestrated overthrow of Iran’s democracy from 1953 to 1979 in the now disclosed CIA Operation Ajax. If you have Persian friends, talk with them. I have a Persian friend who is a manager at NASA; incredulous and outraged the US government can tell such an enormous and obvious lie to threaten the results of Iraq on friends and family in Iran, especially with the known history of the US previous overthrow of Iran’s government under government and corporate media propaganda.
Once you confirm this specific example of an official civic lie for war, it also becomes clear that such a transparent lie is being protected by corporate media propaganda. I will address further evidence of corporate media collusion after the economics section. If you would like to understand how US “official” claims of Iran’s “nuclear program” are similar lies of commission and omission with zero evidence of any unlawful act by Iran or any evidence for nuclear material used for any purpose other than lawful energy and medical use, read this.
You can help catalyze this transformation; just as the Civil Rights Movement and Gandhi’s work for independence for India were functions of broad-scale public education. Civil Rights, freedom, and peace all require civic revolutions to accomplish, and are our most-treasured human accomplishments.
The Civil Rights Movement educated and demanded enforcement of the 14th Amendment of the US Constitution’s crystal-clear spirit and letter of the law for equality under the law for all people. The movement was to realize what already was legislated. The “emperor has no clothes” American Revolution I’m proposing is for what is already legislated with war laws; a victory of WW 2. Indeed, all members of the military and government employees have already taken an Oath to support and defend the US Constitution against all enemies, foreign and domestic. Revolution is the obvious and responsible American civic response to unlawful US wars from Republican and Democratic “deception and evasion,” with “the impostures of pretended patriotism,” and from “beginning to end, the sheerest deception.”
We the People can only declare ourselves “lawful” if we honor the war laws our own nation initiated. We the People promised a world that secures future generations from the scourge of war, and have the lawful basis under treaty status of the UN Charter for Revolution from the criminal cabal within political “leadership” and corporate media.
American adults sense many of these facts even if many of us cannot accurately articulate them; only one in five Americans report trust and satisfaction with their government. Americans are ready to act. This lawful call for Revolution can harness America’s passion for justice under the law, and constructively build a brighter future.
A dangerous possible consequence of refusing lawful Revolution is destructive public anger and civic violence. And given the state of the US economy, that we will discuss next, public anger could explode if not channeled into constructive Revolution.






Open proposal for US revolution: end parasitic and criminal economics. 3 of 4
_____________________________________________________________________________________________
Economics: I’m going to discuss trillions of dollars in a moment. As an economics teacher, I understand numbers this large are extremely difficult to imagine. If you are among the majority with this difficulty, I recommend that you follow the expert testimony that paints the picture, and know that success in this area of public education transformation that unleashes trillions of our dollars for human creative capacity in unimaginable power is sufficient to end the current economic crisis.
This is the longest section of my call for Revolution. If you tire in reading, please consider that at trillions of dollars of annual public benefits, you literally have nothing more valuable to do than understand the following facts that document the theft of our money.
Harvard’s Linda Bilmes co-authored a paper with Nobel Prize winner Joseph Stiglitz estimating the long-term costs of current US wars at now $3 to $5 trillion ($30-$50,000 per US household of $50,000/year income), with total debt increase since 2001 of over $10 trillion. Remember, as demonstrated by the evidence disclosed by our own government, all the reasons Americans were told to go to war were known to be lies as they were told and applicable law proves these wars Orwellian unlawful.
Just down the Charles River from Harvard, MIT’s Simon Johnson (and former Chief Economist of the International Monetary Fund) describes our economy being lead by gambling oligarchs who have captured government as in banana republics (his words), and might plunge the US into an economy worse than the Great Depression. From his article under the telling title, The Quiet Coup:
“Elite business interests—financiers, in the case of the U.S.—played a central role in creating the crisis, making ever-larger gambles, with the implicit backing of the government, until the inevitable collapse. More alarming, they are now using their influence to prevent precisely the sorts of reforms that are needed, and fast, to pull the economy out of its nosedive. The government seems helpless, or unwilling, to act against them.”
He concludes fraud is the heart of Wall Street. Under the poignant title, Goldman Sachs: Too Big to Obey the Law: “The behavior and de facto immunity of the biggest banks is out of control.” He cites the financial crisis was engineered by the largest banks to consolidate power: in 1995 the leading six banks had assets of 17% of US GDP; today they have 63%.
His immediate best-selling book, 13 Bankers: The Wall Street takeover and the next financial meltdown, was discussed with President Johnson’s Press Secretary and journalist with over 30 Emmy Awards, Bill Moyers, to explain the oligarchy, the loss of trillions of American taxpayer dollars to oligarchs’ manipulation as a matter of definitive fact, the oligarch’s looting of America is protected by their purchased political muscle, and without transformation “the next financial meltdown” is certain:
BILL MOYERS: Let me get to the blunt conclusion you reach in your book. You say that two years after the devastating financial crisis of ’08 our country is still at the mercy of an oligarchy that is bigger, more profitable, and more resistant to regulation than ever. Correct?
SIMON JOHNSON: Absolutely correct, Bill. The big banks became stronger as a result of the bailout. That may seem extraordinary, but it’s really true. They’re turning that increased economic clout into more political power. And they’re using that political power to go out and take the same sort of risks that got us into disaster in September 2008.
BILL MOYERS: And your definition of oligarchy is?
SIMON JOHNSON: Oligarchy is just- it’s a very simple, straightforward idea from Aristotle. It’s political power based on economic power. And it’s the rise of the banks in economic terms, which we document at length, that it’d turn into political power. And they then feed that back into more deregulation, more opportunities to go out and take reckless risks and– and capture huge amounts of money….The American democracy was not given to us on a platter. It is not ours for all time, irrespective of our efforts. Either people organize and they find political leadership to take this on, or we are going to be in big trouble, okay?… That’s absolutely the heart of the problem. I would also say and tell you, and emphasize, these people will not come out and debate with us. The heads of these companies or their representatives, they will not come out. They’re afraid. They don’t have the substance. They don’t have the arguments. We have the evidence. They have the lobbyists. And that’s all they have.
BILL MOYERS: They’ve got the power, the muscle, the money.
SIMON JOHNSON: They have money.
BILL MOYERS: You just have the arguments. You just have the facts. On your side.
SIMON JOHNSON: Absolutely. That’s exactly what it comes down to.
Most people don’t read professional economists’ writing. I do, and can tell you that leaders such as Simon Johnson are using unprecedented strong language to provide the facts. Again, in his choice of words: the US economy is under attack by a colluding and unlawful oligarchy. Without Revolution that forces political leadership to transform the US economy to serve the public rather than the oligarchy, as Johnson says above:
“The American democracy was not given to us on a platter. It is not ours for all time, irrespective of our efforts. Either people organize and they find political leadership to take this on, or we are going to be in big trouble, okay?”
Harvard’s Elizabeth Warren explains the economy in language just as fierce. She professionally observes that the US economy is run by “reckless gamblers” who exploit a system they know in advance will “privatizes gains and socializes losses.” She documents the increasing destruction of the US middle class as US financial “leaders” write their own laws “behind closed doors,” and choose regulators who will protect them and not the public in order to “fleece consumers.”As you may know, Ms. Warren is the Leo Gottlieb Professor at Harvard Law School and Chair of the Congressional Oversight Panel for the so-called “bailout” program.
Ms. Warren admonishes: the US economy is in the “last chapter” with “all the chips on the table.” She says either the US public will demand their political and economic leaders end the fleecing because they “took the cops off the beat,” or the US middle class will devolve to live from paycheck to paycheck as Wall Street’s debt peons, “and the game really will be over.”
The good news is that solutions to the crisis are simple. But let’s first continue with crucial facts and testimony. Take a deep breath. This is the civic economics education leaders like you must be responsible for or else you’re damned for condoning US War Criminals and ongoing plunder of trillions of our families’ and children’s money.
Chris Hedges, Middle East Bureau Chief for the New York Times, best-selling author, and Pulitzer Prize recipient in 2002, writes that American taxpayers are on the road to permanent serfdom under a police state from oligarchs’ “rapacious looting” and their purchase of a politically-protected luxurious lifestyle. He calls our economic system “criminal” and “totalitarian capitalism” lording over the exploited slave-labor class the American public has become (Resist or Become Serfs and video, “Chris Hedges on poverty and the permanent lower class”). Mr. Hedges also writes and lectures that current US wars are criminal Wars of Aggression (here, among dozens of his works). From Wall Street will be back for more:
“These corporations don’t make anything. They don’t produce anything. They gamble and bet and speculate. And when they lose vast sums they raid the U.S. Treasury so they can go back and do it again. Never mind that $50 trillion in global wealth was erased between September 2007 and March 2009, including $7 trillion in the U.S. stock market and $6 trillion in the housing market. Never mind that the total amount of retirement and household wealth trashed was $7.5 trillion or that we saw $2 trillion in 401(k)s and individual retirement accounts evaporate. Never mind the $1.9 trillion in traditional defined-benefit plans and the $2.6 trillion in nonpension assets that went up in smoke. Never mind the job losses, the foreclosures and the 35 percent jump in personal and small-business bankruptcies. There are bundles of new money, taken again from us, to make deals and hand out outrageous bonuses. And when these trillions run out they will come back for more until our currency becomes junk.”
Mr. Hedges poignant assessment matches the acknowledged government data. According to the US Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations report, these financial oligarchs’ “trading” in non-wealth producing market derivatives increases the price of gasoline for all Americans somewhere from 33 to 60%. Market analysis in other commodities’ “trading” brings the total cost to American consumers of padded prices over $1 trillion every year. This is an incredible increase of prices to US households of ~$10,000 for every $50,000 of annual income!
“It’s one of the most frustrating things. We essentially have had modern-day bank robbers — except that they wore gray suits and not masks — and there’s been no accountability for it …
Every day we see energy speculators, war profiteers, managed health-care providers, media propagandists, and/or financiers given some unfair advantage over the average consumers and taxpayers, and the cumulative effect of the American people watching selfishness prevail over the public interest has been an undermining of the public’s trust in government.
There’s no question the system is rigged against the little guy. The bigger interests have a lot more information. They jerry-rig the system so that they always win.”
– Senator Byron Dorgan
This admission is crucial data. However, considering Elizabeth Warren and Simon Johnson’s expert testimony of a captured government who collude rather than end this parasitic cost to Americans, the Senate report should force government compliance under existing law to stop cartels, not merely report on how many trillions they’re costing the American public under the Senate’s “oversight.”
Nobel Prize-winning economist, former Chief Economist at the World Bank, Chair of the Council of Economic Advisors, and Columbia economics professor, Joseph Stiglitz, agrees the US economy continues under oligarchic domination:
“What the Obama administration is doing is…ersatz capitalism, the privatizing of gains and the socializing of losses. It is a “partnership” in which one partner robs the other. And such partnerships — with the private sector in control — have perverse incentives, worse even than the ones that got us into the mess.”
The economic fraud isn’t just protected by government non-regulation; the government is one of the principle embezzlers. The Pentagon admitted they “lost” $2.3 trillion dollars (over $20,000 per US household) and then didn’t follow-up with investigation. The American public heard about this news only once that anyone has been able to document from corporate media.
The solvable problems center around economic policy that creates protected parasites that collect unregulated and illegal gambling profits on the way up (the FBI reported 80% of the subprime mortgage fraud came from lenders), subsidized losses through “bailouts” on the way down, and then celebrate with unprecedented bonuses to themselves while publicly claiming to be doing “God’s work.” Future bailouts get guaranteed in advance without questions by government, while the symbolic program to help struggling homeowners is hyped in corporate media but not implemented.
The most egregious documentation of government fraud is in the data of collective government Comprehensive Annual Financial Reports (CAFRs) that reveal trillions of our dollars invested while lying in omission that they have no money for budgets. This takes some time to understand; the data is explained and documented here. For an example to understand what this means, the University of California system (UC) had a budget deficit that resulted in thousands of students denied enrollment, thousands of staff laid-off, a 32% tuition raise, and a 10% employee pay-cut with furloughs to reduce education days. The deficit could have been fully-funded with less than one-fifth of one percent of California’s documented investments. And no, the amount required for retiree benefits is only one-half of one percent of the total; that’s the specious and usual “official” lie. The above link will walk you through those trillions, if this is of interest.
The cartels taking billions of our dollars are in many industries. Dr. Marcia Angell, former Editor in Chief of the New England Journal of Medicine and currently a Senior Lecturer at Harvard Medical School documents:
“The combined profits for the ten drug companies in the Fortune 500 ($35.9 billion) were more than the profits for all the other 490 businesses put together ($33.7 billion).”
Importantly, “profit” is distinct from “research” in understanding these figures. This is prima facie evidence of unlawful collusion among a cartel, yet government doesn’t investigate. Dr. Angell concludes that US government will never provide universal health care because both political parties’ “leadership” obeys health insurance companies’ lobbyists rather than legislate for the public good. The lack of health care kills about 45,000 Americans every year according to the recent study championed by Harvard’s Medical School. Cost-benefit analyses range between $100 to $300 billion annual cost increase to the US by keeping health care companies between doctors and patients.
Is academic economics the proper place to work for solutions rather than a Revolution? Let’s look.
In light of the evidence so far of oligarchic control in the US economy, it’s troubling that professional economics journals’editorial boards have half the members receiving money from the Federal Reserve. The Federal Reserve is the pinnacle bank of the current banking system; with a majority of shares owned by the same banks that Simon Johnson reports have consolidated their assets to 63% of US GDP. This circumstantial evidence suggests that professional consideration of ideas contrary to existing monetary policy may be censored. We’ll examine omission of competing ideas you’ll conclude should be under political and public consideration shortly.
Jeffrey Sachs, best-selling author and one of the world’s best-known economists, agrees that competing ideas are missing in government and corporate media of our most important economic areas. He sharply writes:
“Cynics believe that the Geithner-Summers Plan is exactly what it seems: a naked grab of taxpayer money for Wall Street interests. Geithner and Summers argue that it’s the least bad approach to a messy situation, in which we need to restore banking functions but don’t have any perfect ways to do that. If they are serious about their justification, let them come forward to confront their critics and to explain to the American people why the other proposals are not being pursued.
Let them explain the hidden and not-so-hidden risks to the American taxpayer of the plan that they have put forward. Let them explain why they are so intent on saving the banks’ bondholders, even the long-term unsecured creditors who clearly knew they were taking market risks in buying Citibank bonds. Let them work with their critics to fashion a less risky and less costly plan. So far Geithner and Summers tell us that their plan is the only option, but without a word of further explanation as to why.”
Leading academic economists testify that something is indeed missing from their understanding of crucial national economic understanding. Several professors from Harvard’s Economics Department admitted to the Boston Globe that they both didn’t see the economic collapse coming and don’t have solutions. They acknowledged limitations in their current theories and thinking:
“Everyone that I know in economics, and particularly in the worlds of academic finance and academic macroeconomics, is going back to the drawing board,” said David Laibson, a Harvard economist. “There are very, very, very few economists who can be proud.”
“You can’t just say, ‘I have a model for tremors that works great – I just can’t explain earthquakes,”‘ said Kenneth Rogoff, an economist at Harvard who has studied financial crises.
“We have a very restrictive set of language and tools, and we tend to work on the problems that are easily addressed with those tools,” said Jeremy Stein, a financial economist at Harvard. “Sometimes that means we focus on silly questions and ignore greater ones.”
Let’s examine some evidence of how Revolution for these trillion dollar issues can breakthrough what Harvard’s Professor Stein calls “silly questions” to demand professional cost-benefit analyses of alternative models of economic management clearly discussed by many of America’s brightest historical minds.
The Great Depression in the US (1929-1941) motivated professional economists to comprehensively and creatively address its causes. Upon consideration of previous US economic depressions in 1837, 1873, and 1893, prominent economists led by Henry Simons at the University of Chicago proposed monetary reform as the nation’s most effective and practical policy response, known as the Chicago Plan (and here). This proposal was endorsed by Simons’ colleague, Paul Douglas, Frank Graham and Charles Whittlesley of Princeton, Irving Fisher of Yale, Earl Hamilton of Duke, Willford King of NYU, and sent to a thousand academic economists for their input. Three hundred twenty responded to the mailed proposal and survey (an impressively high number for a cold-call proposal and survey) from 157 universities, with 73% in full agreement with the proposal, 12.5% in approval with various considerations in its implementation, and only 14% in disagreement.
Nobel laureate Milton Friedman would become the proposal’s best-known champion.
This proposal was the shift from banking industry creation of “money as debt” through loans (technically “credit” and not money because it exists only and always as increasing and unpayable debt in the macro economy), to the government creating debt-free money for the direct payment of public goods and services. This policy has several extraordinary benefits (details in the links):

The national debt is paid rather than always increased.
It’s the only policy that accomplishes the goal of full employment as the government becomes the employer of last resort.
This policy ends the economic crisis almost instantly; and once the program is established will guarantee no further unemployment crises.
If the GDP value of government employment exceeds its costs (consider infrastructure that returns far more than costs), the US would have the double benefit of decreasing prices as well as full employment.
For an example of interest, considering the US Department of Education reports that between 100,000 to 300,000 US public education positions are in danger of termination for the 2010-2011 school year, this policy creates money directly to rehire unemployed teachers and fill all school needs. Our current economic model will suffer the layoffs and decrease in education quality.
State-of-the-art infrastructure.
Elimination of almost all social costs of poverty.
If banking were nationalized rather than being “bailed out” in the present, interest rates could be non-profit (think 1 or 2% mortgages that would reduce the cost of homeownership by 50%).

Despite 86% of academic economists in favor of this proposal, its 1934 policy proposal in Congress was defeated. Paul Douglas, leading economist and Senator from Illinois from 1949 to 1967 wrote:
“This proposal will of course be opposed by the bankers from whom it takes the lucrative privilege of creating purchasing power. It would however insure the safety of deposits, give large revenues to the government, provide complete social control over monetary matters and prevent abnormal fluctuations in the capital market. At the same time it would permit the allocation of productive resources…to remain primarily in private hands. All in all it seems the most promising program for the reform of our monetary and credit system…”
So: why isn’t this proposal considered by Harvard’s economists, Congress, and known to you today?
Consider the possible answer of oligarchic control of American “leadership” for generations as we consider the next piece of revealing evidence: Thomas Edison and Henry Ford understood the mechanics of money, and went on a media tour together to explain this transformative education.
Thomas Edison’s 1921 media tour with Henry Ford included traveling to the site of a hydroelectric dam to explain to the public through the media the economic breakthrough to build the dam apart from the parasitic and captured finance we still have today that Simon Johnson and Elizabeth Warren so strongly describe. Edison explained fully to the New York Times reporter how public works can and should be funded by government directly creating and paying for the project. This is less than half the cost of the continuing method of government borrowing money. Edison concluded the interview by explaining that ideas for the public good that challenged corporate oligarchs have always been defeated by the oligarch’s purchased propaganda campaigns:
“Certainly there is a complete set of misleading slogans kept on hand for just such outbreaks of common sense among the people. The people are so ignorant of what they think are the intricacies of the money system that they are easily impressed by big words. There would be new shrieks of ‘fiat money,’ and ‘paper money’ and ‘green-backism,’ and all the rest of it – the same old cries with which the people have been shouted down from the beginning.
But maybe we have passed beyond the time when the thoughtful 2 per cent – you know, I gather from my questionnaire that only 2 per cent of the people think,” and Mr. Edison smiled broadly. “Maybe they can’t shout down American thinkers any longer. The only dynamite that works in this country is the dynamite of a sound idea. I think we are getting a sound idea on the money question. The people have an instinct which tells them that something is wrong, and that the wrong somehow centers in money. They have an instinct, also, which tells them when a proposal is made in their interests or against them.”
In conclusion of this section of literal trillion dollar importance, there is a human face to our current economic condition calling for Revolution.
We live in a present political/economic “leadership” environment that allows a million children to die from preventable poverty every month. These million human beings die every month, year after year, despite the investment to save their lives is less than 1% of our income (the annual investment is ~$100 billion a year for about a ten-year project to end poverty forever). In addition, every nation that has ended poverty has also reduced their population growth rates to sustainable levels. This human cost is remarkably under-reported compared with the death toll of 3,000 innocent lives on the one day of 9/11 (allegedly the reason for US wars – to stop such innocent loss of future lives).
Preventable poverty kills 30,000 every day, ten times the deaths on 9/11, for a total of over 100 million innocent human beings killed since 9/11. And please remember the 45,000 dead Americans every year and our combined annual loss of $100 billion to $300 billion because US political “leadership” chooses cartel profits over physician-managed health care.
According to Jeffrey Sachs, when polled, the American public think we give 25% of our government budget to help the poorest of the poor, are willing to give 10%, and would be outraged to understand the actual figure we give is less than one-sixth of one percent of our income. American media and political leadership allow this disinformation to continue at the cost of 30,000 lives every day while Congress passed HR 4173 to guarantee future so-called bailouts for banks at $4 trillion dollars without hearings.
In review, this section has presented data and expert testimony that the US “modern” economy is still a Robber Baron-era oligarchy. Logically, only one of the following two conclusions seems to be possible:
1. Either people like Jeffrey Sachs, Thomas Edison, 86% of academic economists in the 1930s, and others of ourbrightest historical American minds beginning with Benjamin Franklin and Thomas Jefferson were too stupid to understand that corporate bankers creating a national debt supply rather than a money supply is best for Americans, and best without consideration or ethical refutation of their competing and wrong ideas. Things like the banking bailout should be done without Congressional hearings and passed immediately when banking insiders say so because they’re experts. And just because what you’re reading proved government and corporate media Orwellian war lies, those two groups wouldn’t collude with corporate bank and finance cartels to parasitize millions, billions and trillions of dollars because they respect law and honesty with money. Oh, and Ron Paul, Dennis Kucinich, Paul Grayson and all the third parties are extremists with impractical ideas of monetary reform that don’t deserve explanation. Even though Pew Research reports 92% of Americans oppose our current economic management, we don’t need civic education on alternative models. Or…
2. The US “modern” economy really is an oligarchy that suppresses competing ideas and parasitically costs Americans trillions of dollars every year. Without Revolution, this parasitic cost will continue with current trends indicating the costs will increase.
“When our Federal Government, that has the exclusive power to create money, creates that money and then goes into the open market and borrows it and pays interest for the use of its own money, it occurs to me that that is going too far. I have never yet had anyone who could, through the use of logic and reason, justify the Federal Government borrowing the use of its own money… The Constitution of the United States does not give the banks the power to create money. The Constitution says that Congress shall have the power to create money, but now, under our system, we will sell bonds to commercial banks and obtain credit from those banks. I believe the time will come when people will demand that this be changed. I believe the time will come in this country when they will actually blame you and me and everyone else connected with this Congress for sitting idly by and permitting such an idiotic system to continue. I make that statement after years of study.”
- Wright Patman, Representative in the U.S. Congress from 1929 to his death on March 7, 1976, and Chair of the House Committee on Banking and Currency for 40 years. For 20 of those years, he introduced legislation to repeal the Federal Reserve Banking Act of 1913. This quote is from excerpts of September 29, 1941, as reported in the Congressional Record of the House of Representatives (pages 7582-7583).
Revolution unleashes trillions of our dollars. Revolution exposes and ends what history will frame as the end of “Robber Baron” corporate/political cartels. Revolution enters America into a golden age unimaginable in the present.
And fortunately, the structural solutions are obvious, simple, and have been understood and advocated by leading American minds for literally centuries. Even if the economic solutions proposed beginning with Benjamin Franklin are too complex for you to invest your time to understand, the case for Revolution should be obvious by the suppression of these competing ideas that either are worthy of consideration or should have been professionally refuted (“refutation” is distinct from denial or propaganda as Thomas Edison explained).
If you want more economic data that piles-on additional proof of an oligarchy collusion between corporate cartels and owned regulators looting our economy, I recommend the brilliant comprehensive explanation and documentation of David DeGraw in his no-holds-barred paper, “Time for law-abiding American citizens to stop paying taxes, start a new government?”
And if you’re ready to take the rational next step to embrace the possibility of economics that fully utilizes technology, watch Zeitgeist Addendum and/or Zeitgeist: Moving Forward. This planetary breakthrough potential is explained at The Venus Project.


Expose corporate media as propaganda. 4 of 4







“We denounce with righteous indignation and dislike men who are so beguiled and demoralized by the charms of pleasure of the moment, so blinded by desire, that they cannot foresee the pain and trouble that are bound to ensue; and equal blame belongs to those who fail in their duty through weakness of will, which is the same as saying through shrinking from toil and pain. These cases are perfectly simple and easy to distinguish. In a free hour, when our power of choice is untrammeled and when nothing prevents our being able to do what we like best, every pleasure is to be welcomed and every pain avoided. But in certain circumstances and owing to the claims of duty or the obligations of business it will frequently occur that pleasures have to be repudiated and annoyances accepted. The wise man therefore always holds in these matters to this principle of selection: he rejects pleasures to secure other greater pleasures, or else he endures pains to avoid worse pains.”  - Marcus Tullius Cicero, On Duties: The Extremes of Good and Evil,  44 BCE, translated by H. Rackham (1914).
_____________________________________________________________________________________________
Why corporate media propagandizes and won’t expose the “emperor has no clothes” obvious: They’re complicit with government “leadership” is the prima facie explanation. Let’s examine this important question more closely.
Much of the factual evidence I provided was probably new and surprising. Given the importance of the information in this paper, verifiable factual credibility, and expert testimony to promote it, the fact that corporate media will not comprehensively report it is circumstantial evidence of collusion to support unlawful government policies. Circumstantial evidence is not definitive, but will raise your eyebrows to ask why you haven’t been informed from corporate media sources.
We have verified history of official government propaganda having infiltrated corporate media. The Church Senate Committee hearings had the cooperation of CIA Director William Colby’s testimony that over 400 CIA operatives were controlling US corporate media reporting on specific issues of national interest in what they called Operation Mockingbird. This stunning testimony was then confirmed by Pulitzer Prize reporter Carl Bernstein’s research and reporting. Of course,corporate media refused to publish Bernstein’s articleand it became the cover-story for Rolling Stone. Bernstein provides additional information of CIA control in the Senate report and corporate media subsequent reporting:
“Pages 191 to 201 were entitled “Covert Relationships with the United States Media.” “It hardly reflects what we found,” stated Senator Gary Hart. “There was a prolonged and elaborate negotiation [with the CIA] over what would be said.”
Obscuring the facts was relatively simple. No mention was made of the 400 summaries or what they showed. Instead the report noted blandly that some fifty recent contacts with journalists had been studied by the committee staff—thus conveying the impression that the Agency’s dealings with the press had been limited to those instances. The Agency files, the report noted, contained little evidence that the editorial content of American news reports had been affected by the CIA’s dealings with journalists. Colby’s misleading public statements about the use of journalists were repeated without serious contradiction or elaboration. The role of cooperating news executives was given short shrift. The fact that the Agency had concentrated its relationships in the most prominent sectors of the press went unmentioned. That the CIA continued to regard the press as up for grabs was not even suggested.”
Let’s consider the specific case of corporate media collusion with official government rhetoric to lie about Iranian President Ahmadinejad’s October 2005 speech and contrive a non-existent physical threat to Israel. First: for the US political leaders and corporate media to accuse the president of Iran with threatening to destroy Israel, that’s the most serious of accusations. A threat of national destruction is the most vicious statement a head of state can make. For corporate media to not be in collusion to “report” this proven lie would have to mean that everyone involved in the story never read the speech in question, never consulted with Persian experts, and disregarded all people like me who informed them of their egregious error. Again, here’s my link of corporate media’s “reporting” in print and television allowing US political leaders to lie and repeating the lie themselves.
Of course, you have to verify the speech in order to not interpret the facts as a mistranslation or possible translation. This is appropriately analogous to checking the instant replay of the pitch at the baseball game to make sure it really was so outrageously outside the strike-zone that an “official” call that the pitch was a strike is stating a known lie. If it was an immediate error, it could and should have been corrected. That six years have passed and corporate media doesn’t inform Americans of the actual content and context of the speech is absolute evidence of an official propaganda arm of the same oligarchy spinning for unlawful war against Iran.
I’ve written articles providing evidence for obvious war propaganda to attack Iran identical to what we witnessed before the US attacked Iraq. From my article on CNN’s “reporting”:
When we now know that all claims for war with Iraq were known lies as they were told (and verbally explained here), and CNN provides similar innuendo for war by an unsourced alleged report with concerns of what might occur in the future allegedly stated by an unnamed US source reporting on an unnamed foreign source, this is propaganda and not news.
For another specific example, Mike Wallace of the famed television show 60 Minutes won an Emmy for a contrived interview with President Ahmadinejad in 2006, where Mr. Ahmadinejad’s comments encouraging democracy for Palestinians was edited to appear that he was hostile to Israel. You can verify this “emperor has no clothes” obvious lies and propaganda by watching the brief 5-minute clip for yourself in this article.
“Torture at Times: Waterboarding in the Media,” a paper published from Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government, found from the 1930s to 2004 that The New York Timesreported waterboarding as torture 82% of the time, and The Los Angeles Times did so 96%. After stories broke that the US was waterboarding “detainees” in US unlawful wars, the papers’ reporting of waterboarding as torture dropped to 1% and 5%, respectfully. In addition, after the US admitted to waterboarding, The Wall Street Journal called it torture in just 1 of 63 articles (2%), and USA Today never called it torture.
Just as only one in five Americans report trust and satisfaction with their government, Americans also perceive corporate media disinformation and are rejecting their “reporting.” According to a 2007 poll by the Pew Research Center, the majority of the American public see the US major media news organizations as politically biased, inaccurate, and uncaring. Among those who use the Internet, two-thirds report that major media news do not care about the people they report on, 59% say the news is inaccurate, 64% see bias, and 53% summarize their view on major media news as, “failing to stand up for America.” In their latest poll, “just 29% of Americans say that news organizations generally get the facts straight, while 63% say that news stories are often inaccurate.”
A June 2010 Rasmussen poll found 66% of voters “angry” at the media, with 33% “very angry.” Rasmussen also found 70% “angry” at current federal government policies.
The genesis of oligarchic control of American major media was reported in the US Congressional Record in 1917. US Congressperson Oscar Callaway claimed evidence that J.P. Morgan had purchased editorial control over 25 of the nation’s most influential publications in order to create public support for US entry into World War 1 and his new banking legislative victory: creation of the Federal Reserve system. Mr. Callaway’s colleagues voted down an official investigation.
Related history is summarized and documented in this brief article, “The news media at war.”
Importantly, it is also likely that disinformation programs infiltrate the comments of independent writers, like this source that you’re reading. Don’t be surprised if my proposal for Revolution attracts propagandistic attack of predictable rhetorical fallacies such as slurs of my character, straw-man arguments of what I write, denial of facts, lies of omission of central facts, and whatever other BS (thank you, Professor Frankfurt). The discerning characteristic of all propaganda is non-factual bravado and specious argument in order to maintain manipulative control of an agenda and distract attention from the damning facts.
You, the reader, are sharp enough to discern such propaganda.
The specific pathway for Revolution will be created as Dr. King and Gandhi discovered: through trial and error. What we’ve learned through their process is broad public and political communication of the facts and appropriate formal policy requests to honor what we’ve already won under the law. I’m among several who champion a policy strategy of an American Truth and Reconciliation process. When one confirms the lies for war and economic fraud, the obvious conclusion is that “leadership” of both parties are so deeply involved in criminal acts that perhaps the best response is to split those willing for a “Scrooge conversion” to disclose critical facts in exchange for no prosecution.
Martin King and Mohandas Gandhi demonstrated in their campaigns that transformative civic education causes a critical mass of educated people for breakthroughs in history-altering public policy. The public benefits of Revolution are the end of unlawful US wars and turning trillions of our dollars from unlawful fraudulent profits of an oligarchy to the public good of Americans producing the real economic value.
Again, imagine: how could you have helped the Civil Rights movement if Dr. King had asked? What would you have done if Gandhi asked for your help?
In the converse: would you be proud today of rejecting Dr. King’s direct invitation for partnership in a Revolution for Civil Rights when he was only asking for public education on the clear letter and spirit of the 14thAmendment? Would you be proud today of rejecting Gandhi’s direct request for partnership in civic revolution to end the evils of unwanted imperialism by the strong against the weak?
This is how Mr. Gandhi and Dr. King saw their civic educational challenge:
“One thing we have endeavoured to observe most scrupulously, namely, never to depart from the strictest facts and, in dealing with the difficult questions that have arisen during the year, we hope that we have used the utmost moderation possible under the circumstances. Our duty is very simple and plain. We want to serve the community, and in our own humble way to serve the Empire. We believe in the righteousness of the cause, which it is our privilege to espouse. We have an abiding faith in the mercy of the Almighty God, and we have firm faith in the British Constitution. That being so, we should fail in our duty if we wrote anything with a view to hurt. Facts we would always place before our readers, whether they are palatable or not, and it is by placing them constantly before the public in their nakedness that the misunderstanding… can be removed.”
 -  Mohandas K. Gandhi, Indian Opinion(1 October 1903)
“‘A time comes when silence is betrayal.’ That time has come for us in relation to Vietnam.
The truth of these words is beyond doubt but the mission to which they call us is a most difficult one. Even when pressed by the demands of inner truth, men do not easily assume the task of opposing their government’s policy, especially in time of war. Nor does the human spirit move without great difficulty against all the apathy of conformist thought within one’s own bosom and in the surrounding world.”
- Dr. Martin Luther King, “Beyond Vietnam: A Time to Break Silence.”
I do not place myself in Gandhi and Dr. King’s company, and I assume that neither do you. But I do suggest that We the People are like in spirit and will stand for Revolution in the face of War Criminals and destruction of trillions of families’ and children’s dollars.
In consideration for Revolution, you should also know that theKing family’s civil trial found the US government guilty of Dr. King’s assassination. US Corporate media refused to cover the trial or interview Dr. King’s wife. His family’s opinion is that the US government murdered Dr. King to end his protests against unlawful US wars and his call to end poverty.
In conclusion: The century within which we were all born witnessed over 250 million human beings slaughtered by governments in war and atrocities. War is used as a continuous “foreign policy,” with the US in present egregious and unlawful abuse of their superpower status. History will judge when Americans developed the education competence to evolve beyond endless wars.
You can help make that time now.
Revolution in the steps from Gandhi and MLK are simple to understand:


Because the facts are so easily verified and all on our side, education of anyone and everyone is one component. This will become a sophisticated and multi-front campaign similar to the Civil Rights Movement.
Create public and political will. Gandhi demanded political independence of India. Dr. King demanded equal treatment under the law. Millions of Americans informed of the facts can and should demand an end of unlawful war, return of Constitutional rights, and the end of parasitic criminal fraud of trillions of our dollars every year. The fact of “emperor has no clothes” obvious UNLAWFUL war is a trigger for those of us with Oaths to defend the US Constitution to refuse all orders for unlawful war and act for the arrest of those who issue them.
An elegant way for peaceful surrender of War Criminals and “banksters.” I’m a leader for the education and promotion of Truth and Reconciliation to exchange full factual disclosure and return of public assets for no prosecution. Those who decline will be prosecuted after the window of Truth and Reconciliation closes.


There are related issues with war, economic oligarchy, and propaganda that can and should be included in this proposal for Revolution. To keep this paper relatively brief, I’ve kept the topics limited. These related issues include torture, unlimited detention, extrajudicial assassination (all of which are unconstitutionally applied, including to American citizens), unaccountable elections on electronic voting machines that exit poll data prove are “fixed,” and more; all or which cannot exist in a society worthy of the title, “free.”
“We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights, that among these are life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. That to secure these rights, governments are instituted among men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed.
That whenever any form of government becomes destructive to these ends, it is the right of the people to alter or to abolish it, and to institute new government, laying its foundation on such principles and organizing its powers in such form, as to them shall seem most likely to effect their safety and happiness. Prudence, indeed, will dictate that governments long established should not be changed for light and transient causes; and accordingly all experience hath shown that mankind are more disposed to suffer, while evils are sufferable, than to right themselves by abolishing the forms to which they are accustomed.
But when a long train of abuses and usurpations, pursuing invariably the same object evinces a design to reduce them under absolute despotism, it is their right, it is their duty, to throw off such government, and to provide new guards for their future security. –Such has been the patient sufferance of these colonies; and such is now the necessity which constrains them to alter their former systems of government.”

US Declaration of Independence. July 4, 1776.

________________________

Dylan Eleven | Truth11.com | Truth11 Films
We have been tricked into fighting perpetual wars of mass genocide for pointless profit.  There is no enemy. The enemy is within the US government. All exterior enemies are created to justify the advancing military industrial complex.
There is only one way war will end.  The masses must rise up, unite, and demand world peace.
Here is Truth11 Films latest short film set to The Lotus Eater by Opeth.  Perpetual War.

On Vimeo

___________
Other Truth11 Films

ActivistPost.com Review Of Truth11 Films Techno Revolution + Self Government System
The Global Techno Revolution: Activist Post Featured in Film Outlining How to Defeat The New World Order


Activist Post
An excellent short film released by Truth11 Films features quotes from Activist Post articles.  We give our deepest thanks for their fine work in illustrating how each individual can contribute toward the peaceful revolution of information taking place.  It is a revolution that they call Techno Revolution + Self-Government.  The framework is as follows:

Our weapon is the truth
Our tools are technology
We are highly equipped to unite
We are highly connected to organize
We outnumber The NWO
The Internet is key: e-mail, blog, text

With the above framework, we can take action:

Use the tools of the NWO against them: Twitter, Facebook, blogs
Discuss tyranny
Organize protests
Conduct civil disobedience
Suggest and implement solutions
Unite for victory

Armed With The Truth: United We Stand For Self Government Over NWO Tyranny
This is a clear call for non-violent rebellion against a corrupt elite who have laid claim on our productivity, our ideas, and even on the very structure of who we are as human beings.  They are clearly attempting to set up a techno-dictatorship, so we must do our part to issue a boomerang effect upon those who would enslave us.  Please view this excellent video and distribute.

____________



Truth11 films presents short films that illustrate an idea.  The research and backing of all films are found in the archives of all articles on Truth11.com.











Share this:Like this:LikeOne blogger likes this post. 


About this entry

You’re currently reading “Open Proposal For US Revolution: Parts 1, 2, 3, and 4. End unlawful wars, all begun with lies; end parasitic and criminal economics; expose corporate media as propaganda,” an entry on Truth11

Published:
September 1, 2011 / 4:27 pm


Category:
Government, Politics, New World Order, War, Rights and Freedoms, Peace, Police State, 2. All Articles And Quotes, Revolution, Protesting, Freedom, Government Conspiracy, Government Corruption, Government Tyranny, Military Industrial Complex, Peace Movement, Boycott Corporations


Tags:
Government, Politics, New World Order, Peace, War, Propaganda, Corporate Media, News, Open proposal for US revolution. end unlawful wars, parasitic/criminal economics, end unlawful wars
















About 


Full Site | Above | Highlighted Article/s + Key Word Search
Full Site | Right | 10 Most Recent Articles + Articles By Month + Categories
Full Site + Mobile Site | Below| Focus Articles + Podcasts + Voice Readers + RSS + Language Translator
Quick Links | All Articles | Documentaries | Categories | Focus Articles

Focus Articles

Gandhi On Ending Injustice
US injustice in major policies will end when enough Americans speak the truth. The injustice is literal: US government policies with war and economics are in Orwellian violation of basic laws. The annual costs are millions of human lives, billions damned to suffer, and trillions of dollars looted.  Anyone with intellectual integrity and moral courage can see and say these facts. Read article here
___________

Open proposal for US revolution: 
End unlawful wars, parasitic/criminal economics and expose corporate media as propaganda

Revolution is from the Latin, revolutio, a “turn around” of political power.
The US public would revolt and end unlawful US wars and banksters’ rigged-casino fraud if they understood and embraced the central facts of these issues. This four-part series of articles provides the central facts, invites passionate public response, and proposes specific revolutionary public action. Read article here
___________

Controlled Economic Collapse
Over 1 Million Deaths Annually, 62 Million People With Zero Net Worth, As The Economic Elite Make Off WIth $46 Trillion
The American public has sustained intensive economic attacks across broad segments of the population. While the attacks have been increasingly severe in scale over the past four years, they have been implemented with technocratic precision. They have been incrementally applied thus far, successfully keeping the population passive and avoiding any large-scale civilian unrest, while effectively reducing living standards for the majority of the population. Read article here

___________

The Riots Of England Are Exactly What The Establishment Want = Don’t Play Into Their Hands = Riots Are Not The Solution
It then comes to a point in time when it is in the best interests of the powers that are in control to let the ponzi scheme they have created collapse.  The math makes no sense any more, they need it to fail so they can start the next one hundred year pyramid scheme of fractional reserve banking.  We are at 100% of GDP to service the debt.  Income tax would have to be raised to 80% to cover the debt. Baby boomers are retiring in mass with nothing to show for their years in the slave system.  The elite know its going down and they respond by furiously further robbing us blind, transferring even more wealth back to them in fast forward. Foreclosing on houses and taking vast land ownership, crashing markets and daily gouging the lemmings in the stock market corrupt trading system.
When it all collapses you will not even have your house to hold up in… and thats their plan.
Its not enough they want to enslave us and kill and rob us blind, they want to control us with a tight police state.  So they instil riots and the masses cry for martial law and beg for a police state.  We must not fall for this. Read article here.
___________

9/11 International Hearings To Be Held In Toronto
A decade after the events of September 11, 2001, which resulted in the immediate deaths of nearly 3,000 people on American soil, countless victims from toxic dust, and hundreds of thousands of deaths in Afghanistan and Iraq, international hearings on this pivotal event will begin in Toronto in September. The events of September 11 provided a pretext for a War on Terror that has led to military invasions and occupations, and attacks upon civil and human rights throughout the world. The credibility of the official investigation into the events of September 11, 2001, carried out by the U.S. Government between 2003 and 2005, has been questioned by millions of citizens in the United States and abroad, including victim family members, expert witnesses and international legal experts. Read article here
___________

There is no freedom, no democracy, and no government accountability in Amerika, a fascist state
Americans are a doomed people for many reasons. One reason is that they are disunited and at one another’s throats and, thus, cannot stand up the tyranny issuing from Washington. Read Article here.
___________

A World Overwhelmed By Western Hypocrisy
As the second decade of the 21st century opens, those who oppose US hegemony and the evil that emanates from Washington risk being declared to be “terrorists” If they are American citizens, they can be assassinated.  If they are foreign leaders, their country can be invaded.   … And the American sheeple think that they have “freedom and democracy.” …. There is nothing left of the American character.  Only a people who have lost their soul could tolerate the evil that emanates from Washington.  Read article here
___________

The Government Has Ordered The Media Not To Cover 9/11
The Pentagon Papers have finally been released by the government.  Yet the statements from Pentagon Papers whistleblower Daniel Ellsberg about 9/11 have not been covered by the corporate media; what else is new. Read article here
___________

Truth11 Films | Perpetual War
We have been tricked into fighting perpetual wars of mass genocide for pointless profit.  There is no enemy. The enemy is within the US government. All exterior enemies are created to justify the advancing military industrial complex. There is only one way war will end.  The masses must rise up, unite, and demand world peace. Here is Truth11 Films latest short film set to The Lotus Eater by Opeth.  Perpetual War;  See film here
__________

Plans For A Permanent War Against Terror | A War Against A Fake Terror Al-CIA-da
By declaring a global war against nameless individuals, organizations and nations ‘associated’ with the Taliban and al Qaeda, as well as those playing a supporting role in their efforts, the Detainee Security Act would appear to grant the president near unfettered authority to initiate military action around the world without further congressional approval.  Read articles here and here
___________

Manufactured Reality + A Politically Constructed History
The American people are prisoners of state terror and victims of totalitarian propaganda. The American mind has been under a government and media siege ever since September 11, 2001 when the Bush administration committed the deadliest terrorist attack against America in U.S. history. But there are no cages, or military guards on the streets to signify that America is imprisoned. Guns are not needed to secure an illegitimate reign when people self-police their thoughts and police others by calling them conspiracy theorists if they champion a view of reality that is in stark contrast to the one that the men in power profess and the official ministers of propaganda publicize day and night. Read article here
___________

Al Qaeda: A CIA Database | Not A Terrorist Group
Shortly before his untimely death, former British Foreign Secretary Robin Cook told the House of Commons that “Al Qaeda” is not really a terrorist group but a database of international mujaheddin and arms smugglers used by the CIA and Saudis to funnel guerrillas, arms, and money into Soviet-occupied Afghanistan. Read article here
___________

Bilderberg Meeting 2011 – Swiss National Councillors Letter About This Corrupt Group
This Group unites a kind of European and global elite of Bankers, Industrialists, Diplomats, US and European NATO Brass, crowned heads, Media groups, their Moguls and Editors, as well as Heads of States, whether retired or not, which coordinates, exchanges, organizes and structures, out of all democratic control, the major guidelines towards economic globalization. Considering that the notions of sovereignty and independence are obsolete, if not hindrances to an open Market, this discreet Group develops an ultra-liberal, Free Trade society model, with a (unique) world currency and the IMF as Treasurer. Read article here
__________

New Madrid fault line attack underway, 15 nuclear reactors targeted
The “once in 500 year” flooding of the Mississippi river over the New Madrid fault line is part of a campaign directed against the American people, according to multiple intelligence agency (MI6, CIA, FSB, Japan Security police) sources. The HAARP caused flooding is expected to be followed by an earthquake and then a “nuclear emergency” involving the 15 nuclear reactors located in the region. This will be a pretext for mass evacuations into FEMA camps, the sources say. The best way to derail this plan, apart from arresting the criminal cabal in Washington D.C., is to widely announce and denounce these plans in advance. Read article here
____________

Fake Death Of Bin Laden + The War On Terror False Flag Operation
By now, you are probably worn out from all the speculation about the actual events in Pakistan that claim the death of the public enemy No 1. No photos of a dead Osama bin Laden, burial at sea, instant DNA results and changing versions with every new news report gets old quickly. Capturing him alive for interrogation would maximize the intelligence quest, if that were the real goal. If any significance should be assigned to this account, now is the time to re-evaluate the entire nature of the War on Terror that has destroyed America more in the last ten years than any attack on home soil. Read article here
___________

The Collapse Of Our Modern World + The Birth Of  A Better One
The root cause of most these problems that are bringing down our world right now is bad government. It is bad government (Big Government) that approved the GMOs. Bad government enforced the medical monopoly and allowed the pesticides to kill the honeybees. Bad government drove us into inescapable debt and costly foreign wars. Bad government outlawed health freedom and protected the monopolistic practices of the food companies, drug companies and chemical companies. The downfall of modern human civilization is, as you probably guessed, also the downfall of the very idea that Big Government creates a better society. Because if there’s one idea that needs to stay dead after the collapse, it’s the idea that We the People somehow need another group of people (government workers) to live off our hard work while hounding us with their false authority, directing every little detail of our lives. What we need in our world isn’t more government, but more freedom. If we had freedom, integrity and personal responsibility, we wouldn’t even be facing the global collapse that has already begun. Read article here.
___________

The Global Economy’s Corporate Crime Wave
The world is drowning in corporate fraud, and the problems are probably greatest in rich countries – those with supposedly “good governance.” Poor-country governments probably accept more bribes and commit more offenses, but it is rich countries that host the global companies that carry out the largest offenses. Money talks, and it is corrupting politics and markets all over the world.  Read article here
___________

Sociapitalism: How the Government Became the Next Bubble | When This Bubble Bursts America Will Be Changed Forever
In the last thirteen years, a new financial order replaced capitalism in America. With cat-like tread, this transformation has caught most Americans unaware, let alone some of country’s best financial minds (many of them fascist anyway). This new order constitutes the socializing of risk.  Read article here
___________

Quantum Physics + Mind Over Matter
Quantum physics has proven that all matter at the subatomic level exists in wave form, and that matter only appears solid when we, as the observer, use our senses to decode and perceive the wave patterns in space and time.  Significantly, thoughts, especially concentrated thoughts, also form measurable wave patterns.  And thought waves have proven to affect observable matter in the physical world. Read article here
___________

5 Words Used To Control + Enslave Us
These 5 words are the keys to casting the spell in the attorneys’ legal jargon trickery. All commercial transactions / contracts have been designed to remove the men and women from the equation and replace with a legal fictional entity in the matrix system. Read article here
___________

Centralized government identity program dismissed as being too draconian for Communist China 
Gets go ahead in United States
A new program being touted by the Obama administration as a solution to online identity theft actually increases the risk of identity theft while providing the government with a national ID system through the backdoor, paving the way for a world wide web in which users will need government permission to access the Internet. Read article here
___________

Destroy The Globalists, One Fat Cat Corporations At A Time
Many may ask, “How exactly can we boycott the globalists when they control everything?” The answer is by systematically boycotting and replacing them with local alternatives. You can actually start today, by boycotting corporations you may not have even considered part of this nefarious agenda and corporations you not only can certainly live without, but would be better off for it. It requires absolutely no money at all, in fact, it will save you money in the long run and if you decide to replace them, you may learn a valuable skill-set in the process. Read article here
___________

Suppressing Truth and Promoting War: A New York Times Tradition
During and since WW II alone, America killed millions of mostly civilian Japanese, Germans, Italians, Koreans, Southeast Asians, Central Americans, Africans, Iraqis, Afghans, Pakistanis, and now Libyans. Read how the New York Times is party to genocide. Just like the rest of the mass media circus.  Here
___________

Flying Saucer Technology Released
Nuclear Engineer, Mehran Tavakoli Keshe, has come forward as being the developer of the technology being used in Iran’s new “flying saucer.” His technology is claimed to harness magnetism and gravity to allow travel throughout the solar system and beyond. Read article here
___________

Legalizing War With Secret Memos
Justice Department memos“legalizing” the crime of aggressive war were secret. Now they’re published quickly, and there’s a new one out on Libya (PDF). It begins:“The President had the constitutional authority to direct the use of military force in Libya because he could reasonably determine that such use of force was in the national interest.   Prior congressional approval was not constitutionally required to use military force in the limited operations under consideration.  April 1, 2011.” read article here
___________

Obama’s Position On Assassinations
The Democrat in office has taken a position on unilateral murder so extreme as to be “profoundly troubling” in its legal reach and potential for future use. Read article here
___________

9/11 Stand Down Orders
The 9/11 attacks have directly led to a dangerous interventionist US foreign policy based on preemptive military action that has transcended administrations and political paradigms. The key to understanding how 9/11 was possible can be found in a single government document, presented in context by Ventura in stunning detail. Just two short months prior to 9/11, then Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld oversaw a significant change to DoD procedures for dealing with hijacked aircraft, making it the personal responsibility of the Defense Secretary to issue intercept orders. Of course, on 9/11 no such intercept orders were issued to NORAD, and three of four hijacked airliners were able to hit their targets with precision accuracy, paving the way for literal modern military crusade into the middle east, and now into Africa. Read article here
Jesse Ventura’s New book, 63 Documents The Government Doesn’t Want You To Read, blows the lid off top secret black ops
 ___________
 
Libya: Another War, Another Pack of Lies
The United States, Britain and NATO don’t care about bombing civilians to contain rebellion. Their militaries bomb civilians every day without mercy. They have destroyed most of the community infrastructure of Iraq and Afghanistan before turning their sights on Libya. Read 11 Articles on Libya in 1 here
___________

“Support The Troops” Is One Of The Most Cruel Hoaxes In History
Support the troops” is a clever PR slogan that causes Americans to turn a blind eye to the brutal exploitation of our soldiers and military families for profit and for an evil ideology. Our soldiers and military families are paying for the Bush/Cheney/Obama/neocon wars with lives, limbs, post-traumatic stress, suicides, broken marriages, children without fathers, wives without husbands, and parents without sons and daughters. Read article here.
____________

Japan Earthquake + Tsunami Caused By HAARP and Nukes In the Seabed 
The horrific earthquake weapon attack on Japan, resulting in 10 meter tsunamis along much of Japan’s coast line came from rogue elements of the U.S. government located in underground bases in New Mexico and Nevada, according to pentagon and CIA sources.  Read articles here and here and a video explanation here
___________

Rothschild Bankers Looting Nations Through World Bank/IMF
The World Bank/IMF is owned and controlled by NM Rothschild & Sons plus 30 to 40 of the wealthiest people in the world. For over 150 years they have planned to take over the planet through money. The former chief economist of the World Bank, Joe Stiglitz, was fired in 2000. He pointed out to top executives that every country the IMF/World Bank forced their way into ended up with a crashed economy, a destroyed government, and some even broke out in riots.  Read article here
___________

The Connection Between Military Dominance + Planned Economic Crisis
The book Global Economic Crisis carefully ties militarization with the planned economic meltdown.The New World Order’s systematic destruction of the planet’s middle classes so as to concentrate wealth in the hands of fewer and fewer families. While global uprisings now threaten global governance under a single currency, scheming rulers have long anticipated this reaction. In The Global Economic Crisis, we learn exactly how a planet-wide military dictatorship plans to enforce its feudal vision. Read article here
___________

Truth11 Films | Techno Revolution + Self-Government System
Truth11 films latest short film is a call to action for peaceful instant global techno revolution, followed by a system that is already in place for global self-government. We are highly connected, we are highly equipped to unite.  United we stand for self-government over new world order tyranny.  Watch here

__________

__________

Eliminating The Entire Federal Government Structure Is The Answer
The entire rationalization for the War of Terror against the American people rests upon the willful surrender of our most precious natural rights to a corrupt government. The Geheime Staatspolizei secret state police spawn the Homeland Security society. The criminal acts of the TSA are an affront to every citizen.     In this new century, irrevocably harmed is caused by the phony domestic terror phobia. America is a mere shell of herself. Pile on the forced tax to fund socialized medicine over the intense opposition of regular people and you have a perfect storm. How can reform be a practical option when faced with such a perverse political system?    The only sensible path for sincere and courageous souls is to work towards a replacement of the central government model of governance. Eliminating the entire Federal Government structure may seem to be impossible. However, aided in this task are the very actions of an evil system! All empires collapse. The United States is no more a monolithic union than the nations of the world are a global brotherhood.  The myth that citizens owe an allegiance to a failed federation is absurd.  Read Article here
___________

Revolution Without Violence
The American power structure has been set reeling by something that is simply outside the boundaries of their mental universe: a non-violent, non-sectarian, non-ideological, leaderless revolution by ordinary people. Read article here
___________

Self Sufficiency | Food Production
There are many gardening techniques that can produce an abundance of food for you and your family without requiring a lot of space, money or equipment. Read article here.
Self-Sufficiency: a universal solution to the globalist problem
Self-sufficiency and the harassing of technology in the hands of the people are the greatest fears of the global oligarchy – fears that oligarchs throughout the centuries have harbored. Simply boycotting the globalists’ corporations and replacing them with local solutions is something everyone can afford to do starting today. Read article here
___________

Techno Revolution
United We Stand, Connected, Organized + Armed With The Truth
The ability of the social networks to organize a protest almost overnight, because people of similar beliefs and commitments are in close communication with others, has completely changed the nature of political resistance and revolution. This system of revolution toppled a middle eastern dictatorship in less than a month. It threatens to topple two more before the end of February: Yemen and Egypt. We have entered into a new period political resistance. Read Article Here
___________

Thirty Little Known Facts About America
IRS, IMF, UN, US Treasury, FCC, CIA, FBI, NSA and Executive Orders… Read article here
___________

Deconstructing The Sovereign United States
We the people are viewed as the greatest threat to a malevolent government and its partnering corporations and the expansion of what is becoming a full blown police state.  The security the government desires is not from foreign terrorists, but rather, from us.  Read Article Here
___________

V
“[T]he occupier, by seeing this sign (V), always the same, infinitely repeated, [would] understand that he is surrounded, encircled by an immense crowd of citizens eagerly awaiting his first moment of weakness, watching for his first failure.”  Read Article Here
___________

The CFR
The Council of Foreign Relations figured out how many news stations, radio stations and publications it would take to control the majority of opinion.  They purchased them and put an editor in place in every one.   See movie explaining how this elite group has controlled the big picture with propaganda from so many angles it has brainwashed a nation here.
____________

The Collective Evolution
‘The Collective Evolution’ is a documentary aimed at showing the current state of the world, why it needs to be changed, and how each and every one of us can play a role in changing it. Watch Movie Here
___________

Zeitgeist Moving Forward
“The world is going bankrupt, (whatever the hell that means), because of this idea called debt, which doesn’t even exist in the physical reality.  Its only part of a game we have invented, yet the well-being of billions of people is now being compromised.  Extreme lay-offs, tent cities, accelerating poverty, austerity measures imposted, schools shutting down, child hunger,and other levels familiar deprivation all because of this elaborate fiction…what are we fucking stupid”   See the first 3 movies here, Read Truth11′s review of the movie: there are some mixed reviews of this movie, and for good reason.  Don’t let the message get lost due to corruption of even the purest ideas and watch the New movie Zeitgeist Moving Forward here
__________

Obama Is CIA
After eight brutal years of George W. Bush and Dick Cheney, the nation was ready for any change. Unfortunately, the CIA, through LOOKING GLASS, MK-ULTRA, ARTICHOKE, PANDORA, and other behavioral science programs were ready to answer the call. The CIA answered the call with Obama and most of us bought him and his “Hope and Change” propaganda fecundity “nurtured” by CIA programs going back some sixty years. Read article here
___________

Lets Reclaim History
This is not an American government at all. It is a gang.
The deceitful and manipulative leaders in the CIA, the Federal Reserve, the White House, the State Department, and the Pentagon are the most destructive force in the world, and pose the greatest existential threat to human civilization, and world peace.  Read article here
___________

10 New Year’s Re-Solutions For Non-Violent Rebellion
Because our representative democracy has become a fraud, and the media and courts are clearly shills for the oligarchs, our only action appears to be non-violent rebellion; one person and community at a time. We can expose the crimes and immorality of the corporate state through civil disobedience and conscientious objection. We can punish multinational companies who commit flagrant fouls on humanity and the environment by boycotting them. Additionally, we can peacefully regain our liberty by becoming less dependent on the system for our basic needs. Read article here
___________

9/11 Billboards | We Need More Of These
If you are going to donate any money to truth organizations, may we suggest putting money into billboards.  We need more of these.  In what may be the first of it’s kind in the nation, a group of 9/11 Truth activists organized, designed and paid for a commercial billboard in which 1,200 Architects and Engineers for 9/11 Truth invite the public to “Examine the Evidence.” Read article here
___________
 Big Brother Watches You But You Are Not Allowed To Know Its Secrets
One of the hallmarks of an authoritarian government is its fixation on hiding everything it does behind a wall of secrecy while simultaneously monitoring, invading and collecting files on everything its citizenry does.  Based on the Francis Bacon aphorism that “knowledge is power,” this is the extreme imbalance that renders the ruling class omnipotent and citizens powerless. Read article here
___________

Secret Underground Shelters | Denver International Airport
Built by the Masonic New World Airport Commission. The Denver International Airport covers the US largest secret underground shelter.  It is adorned with disturbing graphic images of burning bushes, people in coffins, children crying, and a soldier with an AK47 and sword killing the dove of peace.  Images you would not expect to find in an airport.  Put there to illustrate the purpose of the facility.  Read article and watch documentaries here
___________

Jesse Ventura | Conspiracy Theory | Seasons 1 and 2
Episodes covering; 2012, Secret Societies, HAARP, Big Brother, Plum Island, Area 51, Wall St, FEMA Camp | Police State,  JFK Assassination, 911 / Pentagon, Manchurian Candidate, World Wide Water Conspiracy, Gulf Oil Spill, Global Warming and the Great Lakes. Watch the episodes here
___________

The Rand Corporation:  A top secret think tank has been pulling the strings of American government for at least 60 years
“We’re all the bastard children of RAND and we don’t even know it,” RAND started off as an organization centered around building new weapons for the military but ultimately expanded into politics, science, history and economics and was closely allied with the Ford, Rockefeller and Carnegie foundations. RAND was instrumental in developing the strategy behind the use of nuclear weapons, and how they actively promoting nuking the entirety of Eastern Europe as well as China in case of problems in Western Europe, a policy that could easily have sparked off a catastrophic nuclear holocaust. RAND researchers believed that as long as 10 million Americans survived a nuclear war, the war was won. Read article here
___________

To Question The Official 9/11 Story Is Simply And Fundamentally Revolutionary
To question the government story about 9/11 is to question the very foundations of our entire modern belief system regarding our government, our country and our way of life…Bring on the revolution |  Pentagon whistleblowers call for a new 9/11 investigation Read article here
__________

The Deliberate Dumbing Down Of America
This is a very good film showing the systematic approach the government has taken to dumb down America.  Covering the education system, poisoning of citizens, fluoridation, and over medication of the population.  See movie here
___________

Let The Banks Collapse and Free Us All From Slavery
The peoples of Ireland, Portugal, Spain etc. are looking at Iceland and realizing its is better for a country to allow banks to collapse that it is to take on generations of debt slavery.  Ireland is now expected to be the first country to leave the Euro.  They will not be the last. Read article here
___________

Fly The US Governments True Flag and Judge Their Actions Accordingly
Look at the actions of the US government over the past 70+ years, and judge each action with the governments true flag flying.   You will see the forest for the trees. Read Article Here
___________

In America today, there are approximately five unemployed workers for every single job opening
The truth is that there are not nearly enough jobs out there for everyone that wants one.  In fact, it isn’t even close. Read article here
___________

Is WikiLeaks Going To Help The Government Kill The First Amendment and The Bill Of Rights?
Is This The Excuse They Need To Shut Down The Internet?
In order to convert the United States into a third world slave gulag with a high-tech police state overlay, the ruling elite will target and attempt to liquidate alternative media. Eventually extraditing and prosecuting Julian Assange as an enemy of the state is an important element in the effort to kill the First Amendment and the Bill of Rights. Read articles here and here and here.
__________

The Chemtrail Cover-Up
Clandestine NASA-military programs are poisoning the environment. Read article here

___________

The Big Picture Truth About The Global Warming Scam
Enough is enough of this complete bullshit
Several years ago, the sun was unusually active and all the planets in our solar system experienced a time of “global warming”. That is a fact which many global warming alarmists just conveniently ignore. If man was the primary cause of “global warming” then why were all of the other planets in our solar system experiencing increased temperatures as well? The green agenda is becoming increasingly linked to the population control agenda. Today there are literally millions of people who actually believe that we need to dramatically reduce the number of humans on the planet for the good of the earth. Read article here
___________

Nazis, Eugenics, Floride and The Rockefeller Foundation
Depopulation programs forged by the Rockefeller foundation in association with the Nazis were the basis of modern day incarnations of eugenics like fluoride poisoning and vaccinations.
Blaylock explains how the eugenics movement began in America through Rockefeller, Ford and Carnegie funding and what originated as The Science of Man project, which was an effort to socially engineer humanity to weed out those deemed “undesirable” to the elite. “Fluoridation is the greatest case of scientific fraud of this century.”- Robert Carlton, Ph.D, former EPA scientist, 1992 The history of forcing fluoride on humans through the fluoridation of drinking water is wrought with lies, greed and deception. Governments that add fluoride to drinking water supplies insist that it is safe, beneficial and necessary, however, scientific evidence shows that fluoride is not safe to ingest and areas that fluoridate their drinking water supplies have higher rates of cavities, cancer, dental fluorosis, osteoporosis and other health problems. Read articles Here + Here
___________

Manufacturing Consent 
Here is an excellent movie by Noam Chomsky on the subject of using media to control the population. See movie here

Pol Pot Genocide of 2 Million Cambodian People in 1975
This movie also covers atrocities such as Pol Pot masacre of Cambodian people in 1975. Something the US Government and global media was complicit in.
___________

The Game Is Simple | All Economies Will Fail + The IMF Will Enslave Us All
The current economic control system is a pyramid scheme that is coming to the end of its cycle globally. No surprises, just built to fail from inception. The false solution is to roll into a new pyramid scheme by the IMF. As each country falls the IMF steps in and when they do the country suffers to no end. Natural resources are sold off and the country works eternally to pay the debt. Read article on the latest countries for the math to fail here.
__________

The Big Picture When It Comes To Naked Body + Behavior Scanners
Homeland Security chief Janet Napolitano admitted yesterday that body scanners would eventually find their way into U.S. public transportation, trains and boats, but Big Sis is already beta-testing technology that goes even further, by forcing Americans to undergo a behavioral interrogation before they are allowed to enter sports events, rock concerts and shopping malls. … The use of such technology is not only a complete violation of the Fourth Amendment, it also eviscerates the notion of innocent until proven guilty, and therefore totally undermines everything America stands for. Read article here
___________

Revolution Baby
Voting … is a poor substitute for democracy, which requires direct action by concerned citizens
The past has shown us when faced with tyranny and corruption, there is only one way for the masses to regain freedom : Rise up, resist, revolt, strike, defy and do it in mass. We have great strength in unity. United we stand. Read article here.  See also this article on Europe rising up here

___________

Marijuana Prohibition Is The Cornerstone Of The Police State
The simple truth about America’s marijuana prohibition: any law that allows the easy incarceration of any citizen any time those in power want to do it is the ultimate enemy of democracy. With 800,000 annual arrests over an herb used by tens of millions of Americans, it is the cornerstone of a police state. Read article here
__________

Pearl Harbor Was An Inside Job
Robert Stinnett published his book “Day Of Deceit: The Truth About FDR and Pearl Harbor”in 1999. Stinnett, a decorated WWII veteran and author, requested files about the attack, and the events preceding it, through the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA). He discovered that FDR not only knew about the attack in advance, but that his administration did everything it could to cause a Japanese attack on America. Read article here
__________

Words Of Truth From System Of A Down
The percentage of Americans in the prison system prison system, has doubled since 1985 | Why don’t presidents fight the war? Why do they always send the poor? | Modern globalization, Coupled with condemnations, Unnecessary death, Matador corporations, Puppeting your frustrations, With the blinded flag, Manufacturing consent, Is the name of the game, The bottom line is money, Nobody gives a fuck. 4000 hungry children die per hour, from starvation, while billions spent on bombs, creating death showers. | Read article here
___________

Governments are the great mass-murderers of our world
Throughout human history, more human beings have been maimed, tortured and murdered by governments than by any other type of organization on the planet. And virtually all of that activity has been justified under the excuse that they were working to “make the world a better place.” Read article here
___________

___________

9/11 Truth Report in “Focus Money”
On 2010-09-08 Focus Money, an weekly mainly economic magazine, did a special take on 9/11 truth. This is a major breaktrough, as Focus Money is the second in the market for ecomomic magazines by numbers, edition about 140.000, views probably 50% more. This is the second time Focus Money printed an article about 9/11 truth, after a 5-page article back in January. The old one was titled “We don’t believe you” Read article here

9/11 Pictures
The 911 pictures article has also been recently updated with new photos. Here
____________

Eisenhower’s Warned Us Of The Military Industrial Complex
We annually spend on military security more than the net income of all United States corporations. We must not fail to comprehend its grave implications. Our toil, resources and livelihood are all involved; so is the very structure of our society. In the councils of government, we must guard against the acquisition of unwarranted influence, whether sought or unsought, by the military industrial complex. The potential for the disastrous rise of misplaced power exists and will persist. We must never let the weight of this combination endanger our liberties or democratic processes. We should take nothing for granted. Only an alert and knowledgeable citizenry can compel the proper meshing of the huge industrial and military machinery of defense with our peaceful methods and goals, so that security and liberty may prosper together. See speech and read article here
__________

De-classified Vietnam-era Transcripts Show Senators Knew Gulf Of Tonkin Was A Staged False Flag Event 
Aug. 4, 1964 Gulf of Tonkin incident, where US warships were apparently attacked by North Vietnamese PT Boats – an incident that kicked off US involvement in the Vietnam war – was a staged event that never actually took place. Read article here.
___________

Fluoridation is straight from the Nazi handbook | It must be stopped
Despite damning evidence on fluoride toxicity, bureaucracies and multinationals continue to pollute our drinking water and mess with our physical and mental health. Read article here | Also more articles in the Fluoridation category (right)
___________

Toronto G20
20 corrupt leaders planning global taxes, austerity, global government and expansion of government tyranny. Nazi police tactics, martial law, police in disguise and paid provocateurs = the black block; hijacking the peaceful protests, that were suspiciously left alone by police. Bait cars, illegal searches, torture and beating peaceful protestors and journalists. Welcome to the Toronto G20. New world order in full effect in police state Toronto. Read article and see photos and videos here.  Update article here

Black Bloc… Paid Provocateurs And Police In Disguise
To justify the spending, a false flag attack by police and paid vandals aid the new world order agenda. See article and watch video here

A Right Is Not A Right If They Can Take It Away
Suspension of rights in Toronto for the G2o, If they get away with this, they will do it again. See call to action article here

Toronto G20 Update 
Police violating rights, lying, beating, abducting, raping and torturing protestors. Fascist Police State. Multiple update articles in one here.

Truth11 Films
Toronto G20 Video By Truth11 Films | Fuck Everything You Stand For | Watch here
___________

New Bill Gives Obama Kill Switch To Shut Down the Internet
The federal government is desperate to seize control of the Internet because the establishment is petrified at the fact that alternative and independent media outlets are now eclipsing corporate media outlets in terms of audience share, trust, and influence. Read article here.
Bill Approved | Obama can shut down the internet for 4 months under new emergency powers.. Read article here
___________

Food and Depopulation
Since the Rockefeller family came to power (especially after gaining a monopoly with Standard Oil) they have manipulated our government into ruining our financial system by way of the Federal Reserve, energy through oil dependency and food with GMOs (Genetically Engineered Organisms). The intention is to rob us blind and kill us. It’s time to wake up. Read article here
___________

Austerity fascism is the realization of the global elite’s agenda for a “post-industrial revolution”
Top historians, social and financial analysts are warning that the draconian austerity measures currently being prepared by governments in the west will cause riots and even revolutions as people react with fury in response to their jobs, savings, basic public services, pensions and welfare money being seized by the financial terrorists who caused the economic collapse in the first place. Read article here
___________

Bilderbergers Have Failed and now are trying to activate plan B
The participants at the just ended Bilderberger meeting in Spain are scared they are going to be identified and eventually hunted down, according to an inside source at the meeting. For now Clinton, Bush, Baker and the other Bilderberg Nazi’s are trying to cut a deal with China that will allow them access to large amounts of funds which they plan to hide and use to re-assert their power after the current political storm blows over, the source says. Unfortunately for them, this is one storm that is not going to blow over to and allow them to resume their plans for world fascist dictatorship. Article, 2010 agenda, list of attendees and coverage videos here
___________

The Truth About Alternative Energy and The Real Reason For the Iraq War… Oil
One of the world’s leading experts on trend forecasting says that producing our own energy for our homes and cars (called “micro generation”) will become ahuge trend in the next couple of decades.
…Alan Greenspan, John McCain, George W. Bush, Sarah Palin, ahigh-level National Security Council officer and others all say that the Iraq war was really about oil. Read article here
_________

The writing is on the wall for the new world order
…The solution is really quite simple to reach now that the nightmarish Satanic plan to enslave humanity is coming to an end: live and let live. If you look at the situation objectively you will see there is no reason for conflict between these groups, all the fighting and strife between them has been artificially engineered. Read article here
___________

Continuity Of Government | Suspension Of The US Constitution
The National Emergencies Act, one of the post-Watergate reforms that Vice-President Cheney so abhorred, specifies that: “Not later than six months after a national emergency is declared, and not later than the end of each six-month period thereafter that such emergency continues, each House of Congress shall meet to consider a vote on a joint resolution to determine whether that emergency shall be terminated” (50 U.S.C. 1622, 2002). Yet in nine years Congress has not once met to discuss the State of Emergency declared by George W. Bush in response to 9/11, a State of Emergency that remains in effect today. Read article here
___________

Hunter S. Thompson | Multiple Quotes Of Truth: Life, Corrupt Politicians and Stupid Wars
“We are turning into a nation of whimpering slaves to Fear—fear of war, fear of poverty, fear of random terrorism, fear of getting down-sized or fired because of the plunging economy, fear of getting evicted for bad debts or suddenly getting locked up in a military detention camp on vague charges of being a Terrorist sympathizer.” Hunter S. Thompson. Article Here.
___________

Satanists On The Run | Revolution Is Coming
Satanists who have participated in the plot to enslave humanity are worried and are starting to run. With 40% of Greece’s population revolting, the satanists are realizing we have great strength in unity. The masses are becoming aware and revolution is coming. Their plan was to kill at least 4 billion people and permanently enslave the rest of humanity. There is so much evidence for this now that only the fools still relying on Satanic corporate propaganda do not realize it yet. The plan involved a fake alien invasion, germ warfare, starvation, atomic war and artificially generated disasters like tsunamis and earthquakes. Read Article Here
___________

Overpopulation Is A Myth
As these videos demonstrate, overpopulation is a myth. Globalists and their eugenic minions have misrepresented population statistics for decades in order to justify their agenda to wipe out large portions of the population. See article here
___________

Police State Toronto and The G20 Summit
Events such as the G20 have become a testing ground for new police state measures and a trial run for a military style occupation. In June Toronto will be on lockdown with rights and liberties severely restricted. Article Here See Video Here
___________

Understanding Deep Politics
Definition of deep politics: It refers to government in which two dimensions of action always coexist: Overt and covert, or benign and utterly ruthless. Ten distinguished speakers headlining the “Understanding Deep Politics” Conference in Santa Cruz this May 14-16—trace the era of deep politics to JFK’s assassination; to the aftermath of World War II, Hitler, Lenin, Weishaupt, or Machiavelli, from there to ancient secret societies, and even back to the dawn of human governance itself. We can trace it forward too; the ways of deceptive government did not end with the ascent of Obama. Quite the opposite. Read article here
___________

Regime Change By Plane Crash
Nearly a month ago amateur footage was released ostensibly showing a Russian clean-up crew at the crash site killing off the few survivors of the Polish presidential plane crash. See video and read article here
___________

Two Words Brought Down Building 7; “Pull It”
World Trade Center leaseholder Larry Silverstein, who collected nearly $500 million dollars in insurance on the basis that the collapse of building 7 was accidental, a 47-story structure that was not hit by a plane but collapsed within seven seconds on September 11; Was on the phone to his insurance carrier attempting to convince them that the building should be brought down via controlled demolition. How did Silverstein expect to demolish the building safely when such a process takes weeks or even months to properly set up. How could explosives have been correctly placed on such short notice inside a burning building that had already been evacuated – unless the explosives were already in place? Read article here.
___________

Police State 4 | The Rise Of FEMA | Alex Jones
Another excellent documentary by Alex Jones. Extensively covering FEMA, and FEMA camps, executive orders and the growing police state. Watch movie Here or download at infowars.com
__________

Jason Burmas New Movie | Invisible Empire | A New World Order Defined
This is a comprehensive guide to the new world order and should be watched by everyone. If anyone doubted the truth movement, after watching this movie I think the only skeptics that will remain are the liars who run or benefit from the system and those choosing to live in denial. This is the final frontier, take the truth pill. Watch The Full Movie Here Or download it from InfoWars.com
_________

What The 9/11 Commission l Really Think
If you still don’t know what to believe about 9/11 or doubt the 9/11 truth movement and believe the official story, then please listen to the people that were on the 9/11 commission. This article should spark a doubt in the official story. Enough to have you look into it further, and when you do, you will find great truth. Read here
__________
 The Digital Economy Bill
A draconian Internet censorship bill that has been long looming on the horizon finally passed the house of commons in the UK yesterday, legislating for government powers to restrict and filter any website that is deemed to be undesirable for public consumption. Read article here.
_________

Top Nazis Planned EU-Sytle Fourth Reich
US Military Intelligence report EW-Pa 128, also known as The Red House Report, which details how top Nazis secretly met at the Maison Rouge Hotel in Strasbourg on August 10, 1944 and, knowing Germany was on the brink of military defeat, conspired to create a Fourth Reich – a pan-European economic empire based around a European common market. Read Article here
_________

Benjamin Fulford Articles
AIDS and SARS are bio-engineered weapons designed to reduce the African (“Black”) and Asian populations.
The 9/11 terrorist attacks were an “inside job” carried out by the US government as a false flag attack to bring about new imperial mobilization.
The Pentagon, the oil industry, banking elite, and the pharmaceutical industry suppress inventions including free-energy and anti-gravity technology to maintain power.
The US government, using a secret military program HAARP (High Frequency Active Auroral Research Program) has been altering the climate, and using high power microwave energy inducing earthquakes including the Asian Tsunami (2004) and earthquakes in Japan (1995), China (2008), Haiti (2010), Chile (2010). 
Haiti Video here | Articles by Benjamin Fulford here, | Articles on HAARP + Induced Earthquakes here

HAARP US Military Weapon That Can Cause Earthquakes and Alter The Climate
13 reasons to suspect HAARP caused the Haiti earthquake here
_________

The Truth Has Fallen And Taken Liberty With It
Today Americans are ruled by propaganda. Americans have little regard for truth, little access to it, and little ability to recognize it. Truth is an unwelcome entity. It is disturbing. It is off limits. Those who speak it run the risk of being branded “anti-American,” “anti-semite” or “conspiracy theorist.” Truth is an inconvenience for government and for the interest groups whose campaign contributions control government. Truth is an inconvenience for prosecutors who want convictions, not the discovery of innocence or guilt. Read article here
__________

Pictures Worth A Thousand Words
They say a picture is worth a thousand words. When it comes to the truth, these pictures speak volumes. From 9/11 truth, to the new world order police state. Each picture says it all. They show your fellow citizens voicing the truth. Evidence of the Truth and graphical representations of examples of truth. See all the pictures Here



__________

Bill Gates, Rockefeller Foundation, Neo-Eugenics, Vaccines and GMO for Population Reduction
In plain English, one of the most powerful men in the world states clearly that he expects vaccines to be used to reduce population growth.
The vaccine industry has been repeatedly caught dumping dangerous unsafe, untested or proven harmful—vaccines onto unwitting Third World populations when they cannot get rid of the vaccines in the West. The true aim of the vaccinations is to make people sicker and even more susceptible to disease and premature death. Read article here
__________

Alex Jones Sticking it to the Propaganda Machine
The last time Alex Jones challenged Heraldo on 9/11 heraldos response was to give him the finger, twice. This time he has to respond to Alex Jones on TV . Alex rips into him and the establishments bullshit.. See video here

________

Wall Streets Bailout Hustle
The biggest robbery in history. The wall street bailout con jobs, outlined in detail in this Rolling Stone article. 1. The Swoop and Squat, 2. The Dollar Store, 3. The Pig in the Poke, 4. The Rumanian Box, 5. The Big Mitt, 6. The Wire, 7. The Reaload. Read article here.
_________


Executive Orders: The Hallmarks Of Fascistic Tryanny
When a president tries to effect one of his Executive Orders into being a national law, he is attempting to circumvent congress, and contravene our Constitution, and move us closer to being a country ruled by men rather than a nation ruled by laws…. …In order to maintain the illusion of a democracy, we are still allowed a presidential election every four years; and no one president can serve more than two four year terms. But, it’s not any one president who has become a dictator, it is the Office of the Presidency, and those faceless autocrats who control the presidency that has become dictatorial, without many of us ever knowing it. No, we are hardly a democracy. Our beloved United States of America has become a fascist dictatorship, and will remain so, until the majority of Americans come to realize the sad state of our ship of state. Read article here. 

________

US Government Abdicates 
On February 3 2010, Dennis Blair, director of National Intelligence told the House Intelligence Committee that it was now “defined policy” that the U.S. government can murder its own citizens on the sole basis of someone in the government’s judgment that an American is a threat. No arrest, no trial, no conviction, just execution on suspicion of being a threat. Read article here.
_________

Obama Declares He Will Rule By Authoritarian Decree
The Obama administration has announced it will now rule by fascist decree and ignore Congress and the American people. Read article here
_________

Refuse To Pay Government Debt Incurred For Unlawful And Oppressive Purposes
In international law, odious debt is a legal theory which holds that the national debt incurred by a regime for purposes that do not serve the best interests of the nation, such as wars of aggression, should not be enforceable. Such debts are thus considered by this doctrine to be personal debts of the regime that incurred them and not debts of the state. Read article here
_________

Conspiracy Theory VS Conspiracy Fact
Those who conspire for war, profit, and evil, cry conspiracy theory when their actions are questioned; The masses hear conspiracy theory and regurgitate it upon cue. Its time the masses stopped spewing the term conspiracy theorist and actually looked into the facts, if they did they would find conspiracy fact. Article here
_________

Architects & Engineers for 9/11 Truth 
Have now reached 1000 professional members, further legitimizing calls for a new investigation into the September 11th attacks based upon physical evidence and analysis that is completely inconsistent with the official story. Article here
_________

New Arial Photos Released From 9/11
These clouds of dust were the result of pulverized concrete and thermite explosives. The bogus official pancake story would not do this. Take a look at these photos and see if you think this was a collapse layer by layer, on top of the other, compressing the damage, or buildings literally blown to particles of dust. See photos here

_________

Fake wars, fake war on drugs, drugs peddled by hypocritical government, the military industrial complex set to kill and invasions continue
Whether it’s under Nixon, Carter, Reagan, Bush Sr, Clinton, Bush Jr, or Obama, the policies have remained the same and the damage to our bottom line has been mountainous. It’s time to ditch the policies we have come to tolerate for decades before they consume what is left of our moral core. Read article here

120 Years Of US Invasions here

Common themes of US Invasions here

13 Lies: An Abbreviated History Of U.S. Presidents Leading Us To War
Those of you who long ago figured out that George Bush lied about, and twisted, 9-11, the role of Al-Qaeda, the Taliban, and Osama, and WMDs to justify the invasions of Afghanistan, and Iraq, and to create the War on Terror, will not be surprised to learn that our prior Presidents, and their complicit henchmen, have lied us into every war since our Revolution. Read article here
_________

Obama Administration Orders World Bank To Keep Third World In Poverty
By preventing poor nations from becoming self-sufficient in blocking them from producing their own energy, the Obama administration is ensuring that millions more will die from starvation and lack of access to hospitals and medical treatment. Read article here
_________

9/11 Truth From Mos Def and Immortal Technique
Man, you hear this bullshit they be talkin’, Every day, man, It’s like these motherfuckers is just like professional liars…YouknowwhatI’msayin? It’s wild… Listen…. | Lyrics and song Here
_________

William Melvin Hicks Speaking Pure Truth
“Its just a ride, and we can change it any time we want, its only a choice, no effort, no work no job, job, no savings of money, a choice right now between fear and love. The eyes of fear want you to put bigger locks on your doors, and buy guns, close yourself off. The eyes of love instead see all of us as one. Heres what we can do to change the world right now to a better ride; Take all that money we spend on weapons and defence each year and instead spend it on feeding clothing and educating the poor of the world which it would many times over, not one human being excluded and we can explore space, together, both inner and outer, forever, in peace.”
Video of the quote Here | Bill Hicks on The Global Elite Here | and more quotes and vidoes of Bills here
_________

Fuck You I Wont Do What You Tell Me!…..
It hast to start somwhere, it has to start somehow, what better place than here, what better time than now? All hell can’t stop us now!,,,,
Rage Against The Machine Quotes of truth here
_________

Truth11 Films | Propaganda vs Truth In Advertising
watch video here
_________

1. The Hyperreality of a Failing Corporate Media System | 2. Inside the Military Media Industrial Complex and 3. Hope Fades for End of the American Empire under Obama
1. Hyperreality is the inability to distinguish between what is real and what is not.Corporate media, Fox in particular, offers news that creates a hyperreality of real world problems and issues. Consumers of corporate television news–especially those whose understandings are framed primarily from that medium alone–are embedded in a state of excited delirium and knowinglessness…..
2. Among the most important corporate media censored news stories of the past decade, one must be that over one million people have died because of the United States military invasion and occupation of Iraq.
3. There are still a large number of Obama supporters who are basing their opinion of him solely from his campaign promises. Others simply hear what he says and base their opininon on that. In order to properly asses Obama you must look at his actions. There are numerous articles on Truth11 discussing his actions. In two speeches at the close of the decade, the Nobel Peace Prize winner affirmed that peace was no longer peace, but rather a permanent war that extends well beyond Afghanistan and Pakistan to disorderly regions and diffuse enemies. He called this global security and invited our gratitude. Read all three articles here
_________

________

False flag attack to usher in less rights
The general consensus from the corporate media is, if we want to travel, we have to just put up with our rights being violated. The government puts a man on a plane with no passport and a fire cracker in his shorts and we are supposed to put up with nazi style interrogation. Just another addition to the long list of diminishing human rights.
Evidence clearly indicates staged attack on Detroit flight. Article here
lluminati Vowed in 1969: “Travel Will Be More Difficult”
Like sheep, humanity had better adjust to constant harassment as long as it tolerates Illuminati control of all important government and social institutions. Read article here

Project Hostile Intent
 Mind Scanners the next step if we accept naked body scanners. Under project hostile intent, everyone is remotely screened by passive scanners that pick up brain waves in order to to determine whether they intend to commit violent or terroristic acts. Article here
_________

Environment, Eugenics and Quotes
“A reasonable estimate for an industrialized world society at the present North American material standard of living would be 1 billion. At the more frugal European standard of living, 2 to 3 billion would be possible.” – United Nations, Global Biodiversity Assessment
“A total population of 250-300 million people, a 95% decline from present levels, would be ideal.” – Ted Turner, founder of CNN and major UN donor
Everyday I encounter people who doubt the plain truth that stares them in the face. The problems is they either can’t see the forest for the tress or they do not want to see. Many automatically doubt that big organizations like the Federal Reserve or United Nations could be involved in corruption or conspiracy, and they do it without looking into it at all. They blindly belive they are doing good things. Well for those people this article is for you. It is quotes from the people running those organizations, words from their own mouths, telling you the evil they are planning to do and are doing to you right now. Article here. See also bilderberg quotes here. See also the quote category here.
_________

War Is Over | If you want it 
John Lennon forwarded the peace movement by paying for billboards that spread a message of truth. ”War Is Over!, if you want it”. The government did not like the truth being told to the masses. The add campaign was really starting to cause problems, so they killed him. Read article and watch the movie The US vs John Lennon here
_________

President John F Kennedy Secret Society Speech
…we are apposed around the world, by a monolithic and ruthless conspiracy,
…I am asking for your help in the tremendous task of informing and alerting the American people. Confident with your help man will be what he was born to be, free and independent. Speech recording and transcript here
_________

ClimateGate
For years many scientists have been challenging the numbers put out by the Gore climate propaganda machine. Recently emails have been released outlining the deceit, conspiriacy and corruption. See the Climateate category here
________

Copenhagen, fake global warming propaganda, the Trilateral Commission, CFR and one world government
…“The philosophical underpinnings of the Trilateral Commission are pro-Marxist and pro-socialist. They are solidly set against the concept of the nation-state and in particular, the Constitution of the United States.
…“If the Council on Foreign Relations could be said to be a spawning ground for the concepts of one-world idealism, then the Trilateral Commission was the ‘task force’ assembled to assault the beachheads. Already the Commission had placed its members in the top posts the U.S. had to offer,”
…“A former science adviser to British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher [Lord Christopher Monckton] says the real purpose of the United Nations Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen on Dec. 7-18 is to use global warming hype as a pretext to lay the foundation for a one-world government,” Read article here | See also this article
_________

The Fed Is Running Scared
Bernanke’s Fed has meticulously sabotaged the economy in order to create a crisis in classic Hegelian fashion. The corporate media tells us the crisis is the result of ineptitude and mismanagement at the Federal Reserve. Au contraire. Like the Great Depression, the even Greater Depression now on the horizon was scientifically created.
The Fed is the primary instrument the bankers are now using to destroy the middle class, hand over all public assets and resources to them, implement a crushing austerity, usher in a new era of global corporatist feudalism and build a sprawling planet-wide slave plantation based on China’s totalitarian model.
It is the ultimate dream of the banking cartel. It will be used as the foundation to build world government. Destroying the dollar as the world’s reserve currency is only the beginning. Read article here
_________

A brief history lesson and the economic crisis
The United States does not control its own destiny. Rather it is controlled by an international financial elite, of which the American branch works out of big New York banks like J.P. Morgan Chase, Wall Street investment firms such as Goldman Sachs, and the Federal Reserve System. They in turn control the White House, Congress, the military, the mass media, the intelligence agencies, both political parties, the universities, etc. No one can rise to the top in any of these institutions without the elite’s stamp of approval. Read article here |
_________

A real solution to the financial crisis
Truth11′s suggested solution to the financial crisis 100% Guaranteed to work, first time. here
_________

Evidence that George W. Bush had prior knowledge of 911
He states in these two videos that he watched the first plane hit on TV. There was no live coverage of the first plane hitting, there was no coverage on TV of the first plane until a video surfaced that evening. He had a private live video feed. The only way for that to be possible is prior knowledge. Read article and watch the video clips here.
_________

_________

Microbiologist speaks out:H1NI vaccine is actually a bio-weapon
Joseph Moshe is a microbiologist who had called a radio station, and stated that the H1NI vaccine is actually a bio-weapon, and is the DEPLOYMENT OF A PLAGUE. The official propaganda line is that he had threatened the President, although there is no evidence that this is true. The following day his car was disabled with a magnetic pulse and surrounded by tanks, robots, and a virtual army of Secret Service and FBI agents. Then bombarded with massive amounts of gas. Read article and watch here.
_________

Media as enablers of Government Lies 
If Americans wish to retain the remnants of their liberty, they cannot trust the media to warn them about government tyranny. In order to recognize government deceit, there is no substitute for more citizens to make more effort to find the truth for themselves. Read article here
_________

George Bush Telling The Truth For A Change
This speech is created from clips of several speeches to tell us all what bush really thinks. Thanks to creators for allowing us to hear the truth for a change from this guy. Click here for the video
________

William Patrick Corgan | The Smashing Pumpkins
Flu Pandemic is Propaganda 
If you follow some of the links I have been supplying as of late, you’ll notice many are focused on the propaganda build up to our day of reckoning with the Swine Flu virus. I say ‘propaganda’ because, in my heart, there is something mighty suspicious about declaring an emergency for something that has yet to show itself to be a grand pandemic. Our American President Obama has declared a national emergency about this virus, which he in his own words said was, at this point, a preventative measure. So, why declare an emergency if there isn’t one? Read article here
________

Truth Advertising Campaign
Truth11 photography exhibit here

__________

Change… What Change? 
The combined US troop deployments in Iraq and Afghanistan have now reached a higher level than existed at any time under the presidency of George W. Bush. This surge past the record set by its predecessor marks another grim milestone in the Obama administration’s escalation of American militarism. Read Article here
________

What Is Money? 
Article here
________

Truth11 Films | 911 Truth to Ticks and Leeches by Tool
Watch here
________
 
Government Propaganda To Infest Network TV Shows
An insidious brainwashing program set to be launched next week will “organically” weave the government’s political propaganda into prime time network television shows, with positive talking points about Obama’s environmental, bailout, health care and “servitude” agenda being seamlessly integrated into the content of dramas, reality shows and comedies. Read article here
________

One Mainframe to Rule Them All
One Mainframe To Rule Them All is a breathtaking rundown of the human microchipping agenda. Concise and effective, it breaks down the coming global information control grid in all its horrifying detail. Watch the movie here
________

End the Fed… The IMF and the rest!
We cannot let the End of the Fed victory be a false one. We can not let the efforts of Ron Paul and many others go to waste, by simply replacing evil with the same evil and a different logo. We cannot allow the IMF to take the place of the Fed. They are the same thing. The same people in control, the same effect on the human population. Read article 300 members of the house support audit the fed here
___________

___________

Martial Law
A private security force whose biggest role is helping the U.S. government to “combat terrorism” is now patrolling the streets of a town in Montana, acting as law enforcement but accountable to nobody and operating completely outside the limitations of the U.S. constitution in a chilling throwback to the brownshirts of Nazi Germany. Read article here See also these articles here and here
_________

National Guard, police, and other military units attacked American citizens with tear gas and deployed sound cannons today in response to an “unpermitted protest” as bedlam hit the streets on the first day of the G20 summit in downtown Pittsburgh. Read article here

The First Amendment is officially dead in the United States. If this isn’t martial law then we don’t know what is.
__________

United We Stand 
2 million march on ending government tyranny | The largest protest in US history | Downplayed by the propaganda machine
The last thing the government wants is for the masses to rise up together and realize their power of strength in numbers. Thats why the corporate media reported the latest T.E.A. Party only had tens of thousands of participants. The actual number was the largest in US history, over 2 million. If the corporate media was really on the side of the people they would have reported the significance of the largest protest ever. Read article here | Watch time lapse video here
_________

Charlie Sheen’s Video Message To Obama here

Charlie Sheen has confronted the president on public record about 9/11 truth and for going back on his campaign promises.
The transcript of that conversation is here
_________

Stop The 9/11 Cover up
On the anniversary of the false flag attacks by our own government, the truth movement is stronger than ever. Polls, petitions and protests show that people know the truth and do not accept the governments ridiculous cover up story. Read article here
Lots of articles and movies on 9/11 truth here or in the categories section >right>

Documentary on the controlled demolition of the world trade centre on 9/11. Watch it here

Pancake theory? Would leave a steel core…

Lots more 9/11 pictures and links to articles below… scroll down
And tons of 9/11 articles here
_______

Obama, Fairey and Propaganda
The Obama “Hope” campaign successfully detached the reality of who Obama is and what he stands for and bundled him up as a neat little answer to our problems; what most people hoped would be the deliverance from the countries empirical aims.
….As is taught in Buddhism; Suffering is ended by the light of awareness. So too is the influencing effects of propaganda… After all, what is propaganda; but a ploy to persuade through sensationalism and emotional triggers rather than logic and contextual insight? Read article here
_________

Global Currency
The United Nations has called for the establishment of a new global reserve currency to be overseen by a bank of the world in an effort to reduce the role of the Dollar in international trade. Read article here.
_________

Fall of the Republic: The Presidency of Barack Obama
Alex Jones latest documentary lays out in precise detail the long-running plot by a cabal of global elitists to take over the world and deliver humanity into grinding slavery and usher in a new Dark Age. It spells out how the elite have worked tirelessly to bankrupt a once proud, industrious, and self-reliant nation through financial terrorism. Fall of the Republic warns what is in store for us if we do not wake up and take back our country and restore its once cherished tradition of liberty and limited government. Read article here Watch movie here or download or order a copy at infowars.com, or prisonplanet.com

__________

Click here for a large version
_________

Big Brother Is Watching
UK has more CCTV cameras than China. Read article here
UK Government to install surveillance cameras in private homes. Read article here
__________

THINK DIFFERENT
Resist the New World Order
Click here to watch the Apple Commercial that aired only twice
________

New World Order Organizational Chart and the Pyramid of Power HERE

________

Global Power and Global Government
Part 1 | Evolution and revolution of the central banking system
Part 2 | Origins of the American empire: Revolution, World wars and World Order
Part 3 | Controlling the global economy: Bilderberg, the Trilateral Commission and the Federal Reserve
________

________

Scams and Bailouts Are The Cause Of World Depression
This is a great article summarizing all that has and is causing our current global economic crisis. Read article here

________

Law
Understanding Law and the lies they tell us we must follow | Know your true rights | Article here
________

Taxation
31 Questions and answers the IRS does not want you to know | Article here
________

North American Union
President Obama will attend the controversial Security and Prosperity Partnership meeting with Mexican President Felipe Calderon and Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper next month, it has been revealed. Read article here.
_______

Resisting the new world order
9/11 activists at a July 4th parade. Read article here
________

One Global Currency
Russian President Dmitry Medvedev illustrated his call for a supranational currency to replace the dollar by pulling from his pocket a sample coin of a “united future world currency.” Read article here
________

NAFTA Superhighway and the North American Union
The Trans-Texas Corridor, part of the NAFTA Superhighway projected to link the United States with Canada and Mexico as an integral cog of the North American Union, is back on the agenda after Texas Governor Rick Perry lied in claiming that the proposal was dead earlier this year. Read article Here
________

Journalist Files Charges against WHO and UN for Bioterrorism and Intent to Commit Mass Murder
Read article here

Do Not Get The Swine Flu Vaccine
Lots of articles on this subject in the biological false flag attack category here

Congressman: Obama Could Use Pandemic To Declare Martial Law
Georgia Congressman Paul Broun warned attendees of a town hall event Tuesday that the Obama administration was planning to use a pandemic or a natural disaster to implement martial law in the United States. Read article here
_______



D-Day, Obama and Hitler
Without the financial support of Bush, the Wall Street bankers, and multinational corporations Hitler would have remained an obscure former Gefreiter in the German army and hyperventilating leader of the National Socialist German Workers Party that would have fizzled out, as did so many other parties in the tumultuous years of the Wiemar Republic. Minus Hitler and his bankster and industrialist backers, 160,000 troops would not have landed on the beaches of Normandy and 10,000 American, British, and Canadian troops would not have died. Bush, Ford, General Electric, IBM, and the Wall Street bankers are responsible for more than 70 million people slaughtered during the Second World War, including about 12 million war-related famine deaths in China, Indonesia, French Indochina and India. Read whole article here

Also see the article Bush and Nazis here
See also
The Anatomy of Blue State Fascism | Explaing the link of Hitler, Bush and Obama. Nazi Rule has been in place since ww2 | Read article here
___________

For lots of excellent Truth Documentaries click here
_________

_________


Co-operation vs. competition / Competition is enslaving us all / Economics, slavery and the financial crisis
The human spirit will thrive with co-operation: far more than with competition. So why is our society based upon competition and not co-operation? The current economic system is based upon the masses competing with each-other for limited resources. For one reason, to keep them enslaved to the system. … The current economic crisis is being caused by the end of a pyramid scheme by the Federal Reserve Bank called the Fractional Reserve Banking System. Read article here
_______

_______
9/11 was an inside job

The top 40 reasons to doubt then challenge the governments official story of the events of September 11th 2001
Read article and watch Truth11 short film: “Ticks and leaches” here


Molten steel and thermite that burns much hotter than airplane fuel can burn being extracted weeks after 9-11

Cut columns are not caused by planes

9/11 was a Nazi false flag attack by our own Nazi government

Some excellent pictures from the Movie Loose change watch here




















Plane hitting the pentagon?









________

IFC New World Order 2009 Documentary
From the Kennedy assassination, to waco and 911. Documentary covering the New World Order, The Bilderberg group and the truth movement and its crusaders. See movie here
___________

I am as mad as hell, and I’m not going to take this any more!
This speech and several others in the movie Network (1976) holds as true today as it did back then. See the article, clips and the full movie here
___________

2012 | Pole Shifts | Planet X
 Lots of articles and books on this subject that may or may not face us all. The key is if you believe it or not, it doesn’t hurt to be very prepared for anything.


2012 Survival Guide here
Survival Guides here
Pole Shift Information here
2012 Information here
Books and further resources here
Articles that feel 2012 will not bring any changes to our planet here
My thoughts on the subject here
__________

Cybersecurity Is Framework For Total Government Regulation & Control Of Our Lives
The Obama administration’s new Cybersecurity system will only make the Internet more vulnerable to attack, while creating the framework for a massively upgraded government surveillance grid that will control and regulate every aspect of our daily lives through the implementation of “smart” technology. Read Whole Article Here

Projects to “master the internet” in full swing on both sides of the pond
The legislation would allow the federal government to tap into any digital aspect of every citizen’s information without a warrant. Banking, business and medical records would be wide open to inspection, as well as personal instant message and e mail communications. Read Whole Article Here
________

New World Order Definition and the US Dollar Explained here
________

One Giant Leap For Mankind | The Moon Explained
Read article here
________
Bail Out Pictures



_________

G20 Protestor
Protesting the New World Order
_________
G20 Protestors

Abolish Money
Abolish Economics
Abolish Slavery
________

Today we are all prisoners in the USA
As of today, June 1, 2009, even U.S. citizens are officially prisoners in the USA, or exiles barred from entering our own country without the government’s permission. Read More Here
_________

John F. Kennedy | Shadow Government Speech
JFK addressing the American people about the shadow government that operates behind the scenes. He asks for the help of every citizen to expose the truth. This was his last speech before being assassinated by the CIA. Specifically ordered by George H. W. Bush.
Read speech here
Read about the George H.W. Bush connection to Kennedy’s assassination here
_________

Zeitgeist movies, transcripts and related articles here
Zeitgeist movement and related articles here
_________





The Venus Project here
_________

Kymatica and An Esoteric Agenda
Movies here Transcript here

_________
Pictures Worth A Thousand Words
HAS MOVED TO HERE
  
See here for all pictures worth a thousand words
_________
About Truth11

Dedicated to the Truth. Dedicated to True Journalism. Dedicated to the Truth Movement.
Welcome to Truth11. The articles, ideas, quotes, papers, books and movies are all here for one reason. To let everyone know the truth about our universe.
The mission statement and introduction to Truth11 is located in the categories section and here
_________
Truth11 Writer/Editor
Dylan Eleven
dylan.eleven@gmail.com
www.Truth11.com
________
RSS Readers

RSS Reader: If you would like to add Truth11 to your RSS reader, the feed address is:
feed://truth11.wordpress.com/feed/
________
Language Translator

Translate Truth11.com into your language using Google Translator Here
Podcasts and Voice Readers

If you would prefer to have the Truth11 RSS feed read to you by Odiogo or to dowload podcasts
Go here to subscribe or click:
http://podcasts.odiogo.com/truth11/podcasts-xml.php
Or go directly to Truth11 Odiogo account
http://podcasts.odiogo.com/truth11/podcasts-html.php
Or you can subscribe directly to this audio reader feed using one of these platforms
:iTunes users
 Click here to subscribe to this feed with iTunes | Get iTunes
Juice users  Click here to subscribe to this feed with Juice | Get Juice
Zune users  Click here to subscribe to this feed with Zune
Web readers      
Other (copy and paste this link into your favorite podcast client)
http://podcasts.odiogo.com/truth11/podcasts-xml.php
Share


Share this:


Recently

09.03 Ron Paul: CIA Chooses Dictators Around the World 
09.03 WikiLeaks cable: U.S. troops handcuffed, shot Iraqi children in raid 
09.03 NATO’s Deceitful Libya War of Aggression and Meaning for Africa 
09.03 Appeals Court Rules It Is Not Illegal To Film Police 
09.03 In America The Rule Of Law Is Vacated | Bank fraudsters, torturers, and war criminals running free… 
09.03 Ron Paul: Feds Preparing For “Breakdown Of Law And Order” 
09.01 (VIDEO) Libya, the untold story.  A Debt Free nation ransacked! 
09.01 Gandhi on ending injustice: Speak the truth because Truth is God 
09.01 Open Proposal For US Revolution: Parts 1, 2, 3, and 4. End unlawful wars, all begun with lies; end parasitic and criminal economics; expose corporate media as propaganda 
08.29 Was the Virginia Earthquake Induced by HAARP 

Monthly Archives

September 2011 (9)
August 2011 (26)
July 2011 (16)
June 2011 (12)
May 2011 (24)
April 2011 (63)
March 2011 (65)
February 2011 (21)
January 2011 (43)
December 2010 (57)
November 2010 (14)
October 2010 (27)



Categories 
1. Truth11 | Mission Statement and Introduction (1)

2. All Articles And Quotes (1965)

3. Truth Documentaries (79)

3/11 (16)

7/7 (7)

9/11 (202)

9/11 Pictures (4)

Agriculture (1)

Alternative Medicine (4)

Anti-Economy (1)

Anti-War Movement (4)

Architects and Engineers for 9/11 Truth (13)

Banks and Brokerage Firms (122)

Big Brother (108)

Bilderberg Group (94)

Bio-Engineered Weapons (12)

Biological False Flag Attack (73)

BIS Bank for International Settlements (7)

Black Opps (2)

Bohemian Grove (2)

Books (4)

Boycott Corporations (4)

Brainwashing (31)

Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms (5)

Carbon Taxes (1)

Cashless Society Control Grid (3)

Central Banks (33)

CFR Council of Foreign Relations (47)

Chemtrails (12)

Chinagate (1)

CIA (33)

Civil Disobedience (5)

Civil Rights (10)

Climate Change (87)

Climate control (16)

Climategate (23)

Club Of Rome (4)

Codex Alimentarius (10)

Comments Page (1)

Concentration Camps (5)

Conferences (3)

Continuity of Government (2)

Contrived Nuclear Disaster (2)

Controlled Economic Collapse (100)

Corporate Corruption (7)

Corporations (34)

Currency (20)

De-Classified Government Documents (1)

Debt = Slavery (21)

Democracy (11)

Derivatives (1)

DHS Department Of Homeland Security (2)

Dictatorship (52)

Domestic Militia (5)

Drug Laws (36)

Drug War (37)

Dylan Eleven Articles (64)

Economics (333)

Economy (426)

Education System (Government) (6)

Efficiency (1)

Eleventh Day Of Every Month Until Justice (4)

EMF Pollution (2)

Employee > Employer > Consumer: Loop (1)

Employment | Unemployment (14)

Energy (15)

Environment (25)

EU European Union (14)

Executive Orders (14)

Fake War on Terror (42)

False Enemy Fear Campaigns (59)

False Flag Attacks (171)

Fascism (135)

FBI (9)

FDA (8)

Federal Reserve Bank (172)

FEMA (14)

FEMA Camps (26)

Fluoridation (17)

Flyers (1)

Food and Water (27)

Forced Vaccinations (19)

Ford Foundation (11)

Foundations (1)

Fractional Reserve Banking System (14)

Free Energy (5)

Freedom (155)

Freedom of Speech (95)

Freedom Of Unreasonable Search (3)

G20 (39)

Geneva Convention (5)

Genocide (22)

Geoengineering (6)

Global Cooling (12)

Global Currency (SDRs, Globo) (41)

Global Financial Dictaorship (75)

Global Government (85)

Global Resource Management System (1)

Global Warming (77)

Globalism (7)

Globalization (7)

GMO Genetically Modified Organism (5)

Gold (3)

Goldman (Government) Sachs (5)

Government (1252)

Government Assassinations (49)

Government Conspiracy (192)

Government Corruption (108)

Government Cover-Up (134)

Government Experiments (18)

Government Falsification Of Protest Movments (1)

Government Legislation (1)

Government Poisoning Of Citizens (18)

Government Tyranny (196)

Guantanamo (18)

Gun Control (1)

HAARP | Climate Altering | Energy Induced Earthquakes (25)

Health (170)

Healthcare (31)

Holocaust (6)

Housing (13)

ID Cards / RFID Chips (17)

Illegal Detention (5)

Illegal Search (1)

Illuminati (23)

IMF International Monetary Fund (88)

Impeachment (2)

Income Tax (2)

Income | Equality + Inequality (1)

Incrementalism (3)

Indefinite Detention Policy (2)

Inflation (3)

Infrastructure (5)

Internet (61)

Internet Censorship (39)

Internet Continuity | Guerrilla Networking (2)

Internet Identity Program | Government Permission To View Sites (1)

Internet Kill Switch (3)

Investing (106)

Law (5)

Legal Notice / Copyrights (1)

Legalization of Marijuana (5)

Life Sequence Of Value (1)

Links (3)

Markets (94)

Martial Law (163)

Medical Murder (3)

Military (51)

Military Dictatorship (7)

Military Industrial Complex (134)

Military Refusal (6)

Money Sequence Of Value (1)

Monsanto (1)

Motivational System (4)

Naked Body + Behavior Scanners (3)

NATO (3)

Nazi (191)

New World Order (709)

North American Union (26)

NSA National Security Agency (2)

Nuclear power (6)

Nuclear Weapons (4)

Oath Keepers (7)

Off The Grid (3)

Operation Mockingbird (1)

Over Medication Of The Population (2)

Pandemics (1)

Peace (70)

Peace Movement (19)

Pearl Harbor (1)

Pension Fund Shortfall (2)

Pentagon (4)

Permanent Military Occupation (4)

Perpetual War (6)

Petitions (5)

Pharmaceutical Companies (44)

Photo Gallery (8)

Pictures of Truth Worth A Thousand Words (2)

Planet Earth (18)

Planned Obsolescence (1)

Plasma Weapon (4)

Plum Island | Bio Weapon Research (1)

Pole Shift (12)

Police (26)

Police Brutality (12)

Police State (216)

Politics (431)

Poll Questions | Results and Actions (5)

Population Reduction / Eugenics (52)

Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (2)

Predictive Programming (1)

Prisons (7)

Privacy (9)

Private Military Companies (8)

Propaganda Mass-Media (73)

Property Ownership Rights (1)

Protesting (89)

Quantum Physics (13)

Quotes (91)

Radiation Levels (5)

Religion (1)

Research Links (1)

Resource Based Economy (15)

Resources (15)

Revolution (109)

Rights and Freedoms (202)

Rockerfeller Foundation (31)

Rothschilds (10)

Sacred Geometry (3)

Science (34)

Secret Societies (1)

Self-Government System (2)

Self-Sufficiency (7)

Signs + Advertising; The Truth (4)

Skull and Bones (1)

Slavery (102)

Social Security | Pensions (1)

Solutions (21)

Space and Alien Life (10)

Space Preservation Act Bill HR2977 (1)

Spirituality (25)

Standard Of Living (2)

Starvation (3)

Stock Market Manipulation (6)

Street Action | Taking the truth to the streets (3)

Structural Classism (1)

Superfoods + Medicines (1)

Surveillance of Citizens (14)

Survival Guides (13)

Systems Theory (1)

T. Shirts (1)

Tax Resistance (3)

Taxation (87)

Tea Parties + Town Hall Meetings (45)

Technology (23)

Tectonic Warfare (3)

The Patriot Act (27)

Torture (27)

Travel (2)

Trilateral Commission (5)

True Journalism (46)

Truth Banners Flyers Stickers Posters and Signs (4)

Truth By Comedy (10)

Truth Movement (61)

Truth Song Lyrics (10)

Truth11 Films (7)

Truth11.com (3)

Truth11.com Stickers (1)

TV | Population Programming (3)

UN United Nations (17)

Underground Shelters Government + Civilian (2)

UNITY Self-Government System (15)

Universe (5)

US Congress (6)

US Constitution (47)

Utopia (10)

Vaccinations (72)

Vatican Bank (2)

Venus Project (21)

Vietnam War (3)

Vitamins C + D (8)

War (233)

War Crimes (57)

Warrantless Wire Tapping and Surveillance (5)

Waste (2)

Weather Warfare (1)

Welfare State (1)

WHO World Health Organization (19)

Wireless Pollution (1)

World Bank (8)

World War I (3)

World War II (2)

World War III (2)

WTO World Trade Organization (9)

Year 2012 (13)

Zeitgeist (35)

Zeitgeist Movement (27)




Join 50 other followers








 To make a comment please go to the comments category

 |  For Podcasts + Voice Readers + RSS + Language Translator see the bottom of this page | 

To follow us on Twitter go to www.twitter.com/ Truth11_com
 







Blog at WordPress.com. | Theme: Hemingway by warpspire. 
Entries RSS Comments RSS


















Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			







