You May Be Prepared For Disaster, But Is Your Money? | FoxBusiness.com





























Skip to main content: Latino/SBC/Fox Business (Home/Slideshow/Interactive: Fox News/SBC/Latino/Fox Business)
Skip to main content: Fox News/Fox Business (Article Page: Fox News/SBC/Latino/Fox Business)






Fox News Digital Network
  Fox News
  Fox Business
  Small Business Center
  Fox News Radio
  Fox News Latino
  Fox Nation
  Fox News Insider



Register
Login




Account


You're logged in as Account

Edit Profile
Logout











Search Site




Wednesday, April 7, 2010 as of 11:14 AM ET






What's Hot


Hurricane Irene


Retirement


Steve Jobs


Gold Prices


Mutual Funds & ETFs


Stock Buzz









Home
Video
Markets
Industries
Investing
Technology
Personal Finance
Home Office
Travel
On Air
Small Business








Career
		  
		      
		          



College Planning
		  
		      
		          



Lifestyle & Budget
		  
		      
		          



Health Care
		  
		      
		          



Retirement
		  
		      
		          



Taxes
		  
		      
		          



Tools & Calculators
		  
		      
		          



Family, Inc
		  
		      
		          



















	  	   Lifestyle & Budget
You May Be Prepared for Disaster, but Is Your Money?


	 
	    
	    	By Kate Rogers


Published August 25, 2011 | FOXBusiness

Print
Email
Share
Comments
Recommend
Tweet






When preparing for a natural disaster, the necessities that usually come to mind are food, water and shelter. Few will think of finances, however, having access to your personal information and accounts can be crucial to surviving, according to experts.
A 5.9 magnitude earthquake hit Virginia this week, causing tremors felt from Boston to South Carolina, and Hurricane Irene is expected to hit the East Coast by the weekend. Both serve as real reminders that natural disasters can and do happen, even if you don't live in a typical disaster zone.
Ted Beck, president and CEO of the National Endowment for Financial Education (NEFE), said the reality is that most people won't think to prepare for a disaster unless they have experienced one. While having the essentials to physically help you survive the aftermath of a major quake or storm is important, Beck said financially preparing yourself is just as crucial.
"You will be emotionally stressed," he said of experiencing a disaster, "so the more prepared you are with knowing where your information is important. If you think it's not going to happen to you, then you need a wake-up call."
The first place to start is with insurance coverage, Beck said. Make sure your home is adequately covered, even if you don't necessarily reside in a disaster zone. NEFE suggests, at minimum, purchasing full-replacement insurance so the insurance company will pay to replace the residence up to the coverage amounts in your specific policy. Also, have your property appraised periodically to make sure you have the right coverage for your possessions and home.
Beck recommends taking video and photo documentation of your possessions. This way if you were to lose such items -- or even your home altogether -- due to a natural disaster, you can properly file claims.
"Knowing what was there is important, you need to have adequate records of what you have," he said.
If you do wind up being evacuated due to a disaster, you can contact your insurance company to make it aware of your situation and ask them if they will pay for temporary living expenses, NEFE said.
Next think about all of the important paperwork you may need in the aftermath of a disaster. Make copies of your insurance information and policies, a copy of your license, passport, your house deed, birth certificate and any other paperwork that you can think of. Credit card and bank account numbers are also important to have on record.
"Have a safe deposit box with copies of these papers in a secure, separate place," Beck said.
This type of a box costs around $30 at most financial institutions, NEFE said. Having a safe in your home is another option as well.
He also suggests looking at your insurance policy from your employer and look into what kind of disability insurance your workplace would provide, in case something were to happen to you. Also keep this information in your safe deposit box, in case you need to make claims through your health insurance company.
NEFE also suggests checking with your employer about their plan in the event of an emergency. You may be eligible to use the Family and Medical Leave Act if you are unable to work due to an injury or are caring for a family member after an emergency.

Related Stories
What Homeowner’s Insurance Does and DOESN’T Cover
Preparing Your Family for an Emergency




Print
Email
Share
Comments
Recommend
Tweet





View Article



Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.

You must login to comment.

View Article



















Advertisement









Last 5 Stocks



























Advertisement















More From








DJIA
 
 


Nasdaq
 
 




S&P 500
 
 


Fox 50
 
 




Stocks
 








Top Stories








Reuters


European Shares Slammed by Debt, Economic Fears
        


European markets tumbled 3% on Monday amid fears over the region's escalating sovereign debt crisis, and the state of the many of the world's largest economies. Wall Street was closed for Labor Day, but stock futures pointed to a sharply lower open on Tuesday. 








            Markets
        
Harvard Still Denies Madoff Course as Professor Reaches Out
              




            Markets
        
August: A Month to Remember on Wall Street
              




            Personal Finance
        
Ten People Who Have to Work on Labor Day
              










Popular Videos










Milloy: EPA Regulations Hurting the Economy
        


EPA regulations' impact on business, environment










Customers, Investors Losing Faith in H-P
            





Is There Anything That Will Boost Jobs?
            





Meet Notorious PhD.
            





Connecting Politicians With Voters Through Foursquare
            

















In the News: Duke Merger With Progress Pushes On
		  
		      
		          



The One Threat to Keep Apple Investors Awake at Night
		  
		      
		          



Will Android's Partners Really Jump Ship?
		  
		      
		          



How Valuable Is EOG Resources?
		  
		      
		          



Does Rofin-Sinar Technologies Measure Up?
		  
		      
		          






























Banks Under Stress But It’s “Night and Day” Compared to 2008: Chris Rupkey
		  
		      
		  
		


As Economy Falters, The White House Is Up for Grabs, Says Politico’s Burns
		  
		      
		  
		


Jeremy Siegel: Stocks Are Cheap! (And Getting Cheaper)
		  
		      
		  
		


August Jobs Report: Why Action Is Needed
		  
		      
		  
		
















The week’s top 10 videos on MarketWatch
		  
		      
		  
		


2012 Volkswagen Beetle Turbo
		  
		      
		  
		


Yankees-Red Sox drag on but these teams play fast
		  
		      
		  
		


Tax deadline looms on overseas accounts
		  
		      
		  
		


Good job markets make for good housing markets
		  
		      
		  
		

















August's Small Business Monthly News


Young Guns: Teaching Machines to Make Your Bets


Helping the Small Business Comeback


SBA Looks to Double Rural Small Business Investment


Vacationing South of The Border

















What to Watch This Week: Yoga Pants, Contagious Viruses, Netflix, and More
		  
		      
		  
		


'I Was Scammed by Phone Crammers': Readers' True Stories
		  
		      
		  
		


Advice for a Stay-at-Home Mom Trying to Reenter the Job Market
		  
		      
		  
		


Ladurée in New York: France's Iconic Macaron Sets Out to Conquer America
		  
		      
		  
		


What's More Important: Saving or Paying Down Debts?
		  
		      
		  
		
















The Highest Paying Jobs With The Most Time Off
		  
		      
		  
		


Seven Jobs That Will Make You Sick
		  
		      
		  
		


The Best Paying Jobs of The Future
		  
		      
		  
		


The States With The Highest Divorce Rates
		  
		      
		  
		


The Nine Foods The Government Is Paying For You To Eat
		  
		      
		  
		













Sections




Home


Video


Markets


Industries


Investing


Technology


Personal Finance


Home Office


Travel


On Air


Small Business








Browse




Stock Quotes


Video


Anchors & Reporters


TV Show Schedule


Tools


Topics


Flight Tracker


Mobile








Shows




America's Nightly Scoreboard


Bulls & Bears


Cavuto


Closing Bell


Follow the Money


Freedom Watch


Imus in the Morning


Lou Dobbs Tonight


Stossel


Tom Sullivan


Varney & Company


The Willis Report








About




About Fox Business


Channel Finder


Advertise with Us


Jobs at Fox Business


Internships


Terms of Use


Privacy Statement (Updated!)
								

Ad Choices


Press








Follow




  Facebook


  Twitter


  YouTube


  RSS


  Newsletters













Quotes delayed at least 15 minutes. Real-time quotes provided by BATS Exchange. Market Data provided by Interactive Data (Terms & Conditions). Powered and Implemented by Interactive Data Managed Solutions. Company fundamental data provided by Morningstar. Earnings estimates data provided by Zacks. Mutual fund data provided by Lipper. Economic data provided by Econoday. Dow Jones & Company Terms & Conditions.
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2011 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.








