Virginia shaken again: More than 20 aftershocks from 5.8 East Coast earthquake now felt | The Extinction Protocol: 2012 and beyond






The Extinction Protocol: 2012 and beyond


2012 and Earthchanges News events



Skip to content
HomeLearn more: The Extinction Protocol book







← Retired Chinese general warns China is planning a suprise missile attack on U.S.
Cosmic ray intensity shows steady increase for month of August →


Virginia shaken again: More than 20 aftershocks from 5.8 East Coast earthquake now felt

Posted on September 1, 2011 by The Extinction Protocol 


September 1, 2011 – VIRGINA – Central Virginia has been shaken by another aftershock from last week’s earthquake that rattled the East Coast. The U.S. Geological Survey reported a 3.4 magnitude aftershock at 5.09 am this morning. The epicenter was four miles south-southeast of Mineral, the town that was the epicenter of last Tuesday’s 5.8-magnitude earthquake. More than 20 aftershocks ranging from 4.5 to 1.8 have followed the earthquake. Aftershocks are smaller tremors that take place in the weeks and possibly months following a major earthquake like the one centered in Virginia. The aftershock occurred as it was revealed that last Tuesday’s quake rattled casks holding radioactive nuclear waste at a Virginia plant, moving them as much as 4.5 inches from their original position. The earthquake, which was felt as far away as Toronto, shifted 25 casks, each 16-feet tall and weighing 115 tons, on a concrete pad at Dominion Resources Inc’s North Anna nuclear plant. –Daily Mail



								Eco World Content From Across The Internet.
							


								Featured on EcoPressed
							

								Mental Health and Climate Change
							




Advertisement

Share this:ShareStumbleUponRedditDiggLinkedInFacebookEmailLike this:Like2 bloggers like this post. 

						This entry was posted in Earth Changes, Earth Watch, Landslide & geological deformation, Seismic tremors. Bookmark the permalink.											


← Retired Chinese general warns China is planning a suprise missile attack on U.S.
Cosmic ray intensity shows steady increase for month of August →


8 Responses to Virginia shaken again: More than 20 aftershocks from 5.8 East Coast earthquake now felt




 PAUL KUNKEL says: 

			September 1, 2011 at 4:28 pm 
wow!! SCOTTY THE SHIELDS ARE DOWN!!!


Reply 





 luisport says: 

			September 1, 2011 at 4:32 pm 
ENENEWS Energy News
Official: Spent fuel bunkers at North Anna nuke plant damaged during quake — Concrete “came loose http://bit.ly/nGh8ss #Fukushima
há 8 minutos


Reply 





 Shawnta says: 

			September 1, 2011 at 6:02 pm 
I am disturbed by this, since I felt this earthquake here in DC area.
The nuclear power plant is the most disturbing to me…I know we are not done with the shaking by a long shot.


Reply 





 JerseyCynic says: 

			September 1, 2011 at 6:16 pm 
Let’s wait and see if congress returns next week.  how convenient they’re out of town – eh?
Sorry, but my tinfoil is very tingly today.  I’m really not looking forward to this “holiday” weekend.
Labor Day doesn’t mean much these days, does it. ….  “a celebration of worker’s rights and the triumphs that the labor movement has gained over the last couple of centuries”
very depressing
keep safe everyone.


Reply 





 nickk0 says: 

			September 1, 2011 at 10:14 pm 
I’ll be working for a good chunk of this weekend.
Bah Humbug.
It’s frustrating, watching things go to $___ and meanwhile, my Job takes up more and more of what’s left of my life.  It’s stooopid. 
Maybe Congress will extend their vacation.  That may not be such a bad thing, if they are going to propose more stooopid laws, instead of good ones. 
- Nick


Reply 







 Irene Carmichael says: 

			September 1, 2011 at 6:39 pm 
I’ve been watching the aftershocks in Virginia. Although these might be unnoticeable on the West Coast, the soil make-up is different on the East Coast. There was also a 3.1 in Ohio, down by the Ohio River, Wednesday, August 31, 2011 at 05:35:12 AM at epicenter, 16 km (9 miles) E of Marietta, Ohio. It was too far south for me to feel it, but it caught my attention. Looking at the USGS map of the United States, I’ve been seeing a lot of small tremors west of the West Coast. I don’t believe most of these really mean anything, but I’m definitely keeping an eye out on them.
Be blessed and Maranatha


Reply 





 Dennis E. says: 

			September 1, 2011 at 8:56 pm 
So have I. I think we could see some action out of this.


Reply 







 RitaBook says: 

			September 1, 2011 at 6:41 pm 
“We had a lot going on,” Zuercher said. “There was no indication of any problem … and there isn’t any problem.”
http://www.cnn.com/2011/US/09/01/virginia.quake.nuclear/
No problemo!  Just an everyday occurrence.


Reply 




Leave a Reply Cancel reply



Enter your comment here...





Guest
Log In
Log In
Log In









Email (required) (Not published)



Name (required)



Website











Please log in to WordPress.com to post a comment to your blog.













 You are commenting using your Twitter account. (Log Out)












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. (Log Out)




Connecting to %s



 Notify me of follow-up comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.







 








Search for:



  Recent Posts 
Middle East powder keg: Senior Israeli General warns danger of regional war involving WMDs growing
6.6 magnitude earthquake strikes NW of Lake Toba super-volcano caldera
Somalia famine: UN warns of 750,000 deaths in coming months
European markets hammered as debt fears resurface in Eurozone
High winds and dry conditions sends Texas up in flames- 2 dead, 60 wildfires raging

Archives 
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010

Categories 
11:11 signature encoded

2012

Acquatic Ecosystem crash

Catastrophic Insurance losses mount

Celebrities and the Apocalypse

Civilizations unraveling

Climate unraveling

Cloudburst storms with flashflooding

Comets

Commentary

Dark Ages

Disappearing Lakes

Dust Storm

Earth Changes

Earth Watch

Earthquake Omens?

Economic upheaval, social unrest, terrorism

Environmental Threat

Extinction Protocol Exclusive Editorial

Extreme Weather Event

Famine Threat

Fireballs, Meteor or Asteroid

Food chain unraveling

Forecast book quotation

Future coding

High-risk potential hazard zone

Land fissures, cracks, sinkholes

Landslide & geological deformation

Lithosphere collapse & fisssure

Mass animal deaths

Monthly lead post

New World Order -Dystopia- War

Pack Animal Aggression

Pest Explosions

Pestilence Watch

Planetary Tremor Event

Potential Earthchange hotspot

Prophecies referenced

Seismic tremors

Signs of Magnetic Field weakening

Solar Event

Space Watch

Strange high tides & freak waves

Unprecedented Flooding

Unsolved Mystery

Ususual animal behavior for disaster

Volcanic Eruption

Volcano Watch

Wildfires


Email Subscription

Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 1,315 other followers









EP: Live Twitter Feed
Israeli General warns danger of regional war with WMDs growing: http://t.co/4YIrf15 -The Extinction Protocol...4 hours ago
6.6 magnitude earthquake strikes just NW of Lake Toba super-volcano caldera: http://t.co/NA1NKCZ -The Extinction Protocol...5 hours ago
UN warns famine could kill 750,000 in coming months in Somalia: http://t.co/02T0qRV -The Extinction Protocol...8 hours ago

 



The Extinction Protocol: 2012 and beyondThe world will change. Will you be ready?

 






					The Extinction Protocol: 2012 and beyond				


				Theme: Twenty Ten Blog at WordPress.com. 
			


































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			






