Sams World: Watch The Virginia Earthquake Spread Across Twitter [Earthquake]



























































Sams World































































































Wednesday, August 24, 2011





Watch The Virginia Earthquake Spread Across Twitter [Earthquake]





      				You've seen the XKCD comic showing how tweets about an earthquake eventually spread faster than the quake itself, and now here's the proof.				More »          Source: http://feeds.gawker.com/~r/gizmodo/full/~3/rRij7Bj6JNg/watch-the-virginia-earthquake-spread-across-twitterSYNNEX SYMANTEC SYKES ENTERPRISES INORATED SYBASE SUN MICROSYSTEMS 




Posted by
sammy88wat


at
2:13 PM












Email This

BlogThis!

Share to Twitter

Share to Facebook

Share to Google Buzz














0
comments:
        








Post a Comment



















Newer Post


Older Post

Home




Subscribe to:
Post Comments (Atom)
















Followers






















Blog Archive






▼ 

2011
(756)





          ► 
        


September
(57)

Soulo karaoke mic for iPad coming to a thin partit...
Have artistic time with Dominus plus for iPhone, i...
AppleInsider Rumor Purports Apple iCloud Runs on M...
New and updated iPhone and iPad apps for Monday, S...
Windows 8 to feature adaptive Aero colorization, g...
How Secure is My Password lets you know just that
The Insane Month of August: So Long, Farewell, Auf...
Amazon Is Only Launching A 7? Tablet? Genius. (Plu...
Droid Bionic browser benchmarked, numbers look imp...
Mozilla Messaging reintegrates with Labs, unifies ...
Balance is a challenging mouse-based physics game
Galaxy S II Whirls Into US
Tango video calling en route to Windows Phone Mang...
Mitoza is a fun, freaky Web toy with an artistic l...
S-Walker Electric Transporter hands-on (video)
Backing up data, Buying a Thunderbolt [From the Fo...
S-Walker Electric Transporter hands-on (video)
This Is Like Watching God Playing with Puppets [Vi...
This Is What Amazon's Kindle Tablet Looks Like [Ru...
Google Voice for Honeycomb tablets now officially ...
A Woman Bought a Laptop for $250 But Ended Up with...
Tasty Planet is a fun flash game where you eat eve...
Amazon?s iPad competitor is a 7-inch Android-forki...
Google Does A Full House Cleaning: Sunsets Desktop...
Big Mango Falls From HTC's Tree
Listen to Gizmodo?s Soundtrack: Active Child [Vide...
Google+ To Roll Out A Twitter-Like Suggested User ...
Libra for Android helps you track your weight usin...
FCC Fridays: September 2, 2011
Engadget Podcast 254 - 09.02.2011
Windows 8 to feature adaptive Aero colorization, g...
Survival Lab is a fun pixelated game where dying d...
Researchers wed quantum processor with quantum mem...
Griffin Stylus + Pen + Laser Pointer
Jabra Sport bluetooth headset lets you work the Th...
How The CIA Became ?One Hell of a Killing Machine?...
Elgato Lets You Watch Live TV on Your iPad 2
A Tale of Two Licenses
Mozilla Targets Tablets With New Browser Designs
Deal of the Day ? 50% Off Lenovo Enhanced Multimed...
The Amazon Tablet: Lying, Waiting, Learning?
Vonage launches Android app for free international...
Farragomate is a social fridge magnet game where y...
HP Makes Special Edition of 30-Year-Old 12c Calcul...
Tarzan Ball is a tricky hook-and-pull physics game...
Filmic Pro for iPhone: Like Whoa, Your iPhone Vide...
Classic Shell now makes Internet Explorer 9 look l...
Toshiba Outs Monstrous 55? 4K, Glasses-Free 3D TV ...
Secondhand iPad ? A Good Idea?
Sony Enters the Tablet Wars






▼ 

August
(366)

TweetDeck to launch as HTML5 Web app, now acceptin...
Daily Crunch: Rained Out Lunch Edition
Sony officially renames the S2 the Tablet P, opens...
Install the Windows Phone 7 NoDo update regardless...
A sneak peek at the next version of Android Market...
Monster-Making App Splatters Virtual Ink in Deligh...
Samsung Galaxy S II family portrait, plus one in a...
HP TouchPad Now Edits Office Docs and More Free Ap...
Putting Smart Collars on Wild Animals Will Help Us...
Netgear's WNDR 3800 with ReadySHARE, the roll-your...
Google Latitude check-in deals now available acros...
Amazon Appstore for Android Test Drive hands on: s...
Lenovo ThinkPad Tablet vs. Samsung Galaxy Tab 10.1...
CrunchGear Week In Review: Independent Edition
How to export iPhone, iPad UI elements from Photos...
HP: Limited supply of TouchPads on the way
Game Review: Avadon the Black Fortress for iPad
Podcasts streaming as music samples in iTunes app?...
DJ Sound Control computer mod redefines luggable
Map Proves You Are Paying Too Much For Marijuana [...
LG HX906TX home theater system promises 3D sound, ...
Libra for Android helps you track your weight usin...
Nobody Has Any Idea What the Hell This Mysterious ...
Line Grapefruit is a tricky Flash "path" game
Pet Check: Stalk Your Dog and Dog Walker with GPS ...
LG VS920 pushes through FCC with Verizon LTE, coul...
ChromeLite: experience the ASCII Web of yesteryear...
Microsoft trumpets Windows Phone 7 numbers on firs...
BlackBerry Messenger 6.0 screenshots leak
Steve Jobs' Exit: The Day the Magic Died
AVG launches LiveKive cloud sync and backup tool
Cardstick ? A Ruler for your Wallet that Requires ...
Chocomize personalized chocolate: giveaway and dis...
Mozilla publishes name and shame list of slow Fire...
Cardstick ? A Ruler for your Wallet that Requires ...
You can still win an iPad 2 from Vonage!
Apple stops renting TV shows in iTunes, could be w...
Nokia 701, 700 and 600 get hands-on treatment with...
OmmWriter brings its clean, calm writing interface...
Opera 11.10 gets HTML5 File API support, IMAP impr...
The Funniest Ipad Apps On The Market
Irene Emergency Radio Tracker Site Set to Ambient ...
iPad Giveaways ? real or fake?
Courier Rising, Fox Falling, and Other Stories We ...
This Is the Largest Camera Sensor In the World [Ph...
NYC Orders First Mandatory Evacuation In History, ...
Irene Blows Her Way Through the East Coast (Updati...
Arexit A-Fold Tablet Stand Review
Smartphone App Bypasses Printed Paper Tickets
Study: People Would Sooner Make Love to Their Lapt...
Add more functionality to the stock Messages app w...
9 Tools to Make Burning Man Extra Awesome [Tool Ki...
How a Robotic Telescope Just Found the Youngest Su...
Steve Jobs Resigns as CEO of Apple
Interlocked is a three-dimensional brain teaser
Sony Android tablet details and specs continue to ...
iSheetMusic, Luminance, Composition No. 1 and More...
Shot Shot Pirate is a fun, simple physics game
British royal family announces iOS and Android wed...
LG and GM team up to build next generation of elec...
Konstruct for iOS creates generative augmented rea...
Skype 5.3 for Windows released, improves mobile vi...
HTC Omega blessed with renders, revealing its fron...
Firefox 4 rockets to 5% global usage share, IE9 wa...
Words With Friends for Android updated, promises "...
TripAdvisor app for Windows Phone 7 now available
The Crazy Stuff That Shows Up When You Type &quot;...
Jailbreakme Author Comex Joins Apple as Intern
Apple orders iCab iOS browser to cripple JavaScrip...
SanDisk launches $50 Sansa Clip Zip MP3 player, ma...
The Next Steps In Robotics And Computer Vision: Be...
X10 AirPad is a warm slab of Gingerbread for under...
How Not to Air Your Grievances with the Banking In...
Hurricane Irene Is Worse Than You Think [Hurricane...
7 Tools to Retrofy Your Bunker [Video]
Spherical Panorama Photography Made Easy
BlackBerry Messenger 6.0 screenshots leak
Zoho Docs 2.0 adds iPad support
Must Have R2-D2 Bike Helmet [Star Wars]
Drift HD 1080p Rugged Cam Lightning Review: Awesom...
Jetbus is a retro-tastic physics game, with a bus
The Truth Behind the Syrian Cell Phone Charging St...
Droid Bionic ad has pretty much everything but a p...
Samsung Galaxy S II used in Samsung's teaser video...
How unlocked is HTC's bootloader unlocking method?...
Samsung debuts new Galaxy lineup, refines naming s...
Watch The Virginia Earthquake Spread Across Twitte...
AT&amp;T's fall and winter 2011 roadmap leaked in ...
Vizio's Android Tablet Is the First to Offer Hulu ...
Motorola Atrix?s ?Most Powerful? Claims Shot Down ...
Engineer hacks a Kindle, creates easy to use proto...
Firefox 4 Friday: 25 million downloads, anti-alias...
Sony NEX-5N replaces NEX-5, adds 16.1 MP sensor, 2...
Microsoft Kinect is the Hands-Free Deal of the Day...
National Geographic's Great Map App Lets You Take ...
Someone Found True Love During the Earthquake [Cra...
Graft Concepts' fancy Leverage iPhone case is prob...
Android still king of the US smartphone hill, Moto...
This $5 Million Piece of Art Is a 1 Terabyte Hard ...
TweetDeck to launch as HTML5 Web app, now acceptin...
Windows 8 welcome screen revealed, looks very Metr...
Altaro Hyper-V Backup beta launched, only 250 plac...
Pentax Q ? world?s smallest interchangeable lens c...
Even An Orangutan Knows How To Cool Himself Off [V...
Prop Up Your iPad and Type Feverishly with a Wings...
Microsoft files antitrust complaint against Google...
Google Voice Search learns Latin American Spanish,...
HP: Pre 3 not destined for US shores
� la carte 3G/4G data on the EVO View 4G now avail...
Placecast Brings Location-Based Shopping Alerts To...
Windows 8 welcome screen revealed, looks very Metr...
Meet the Training Scooter of the (Disney-Approved)...
Inhabitat's Week in Green: space pod hotel, Lego L...
Windows 8 wallpaper available to download, Jupiter...
Daily Crunch: Power Supply Edition
Revenge Of The Killer Script Kiddies!
Daily Crunch: Moon Phase Edition
Once Upon a Time, HP Created the First Personal Co...
Toothpaste-Squeezing Toothbrush Wrings Out Every L...
Do You Really Know What Your Android Is Capable Of...
Hello Expense is a simple, reliable expense tracke...
Caption Contest: No doubt, these two are definitel...
Color vulnerable to simple GPS hack, lets you spy ...
Hands On with LinkedIn?s New Mobile Apps
Mozilla publishes name and shame list of slow Fire...
Line Grapefruit is a tricky Flash "path" game
Verizon strike to come to an end August 23rd
Windows 8 getting a built-in PDF reader, Metro-sty...
New software uses facial recognition to defend aga...
Line Grapefruit is a tricky Flash "path" game
Bing begins roll out of HTML5-enhanced search inte...
Auslogics Disk Defrag 3.2 gets smarter, faster
New York from Day to Night in One Picture [Image C...
Daily Crunch: Landscape Portrait Edition
Microsoft files antitrust complaint against Google...
The World, AnimGIF Live Wallpapers, Skitch and Mor...
Canada Post issues BlackBerry stamp, for your less...
Motorola's XT531 hits the FCC, ready for its US cr...
Who Is Steve Jobs? [Apple]
Thrustmaster unveils Ferrari F458 racing wheel and...
Who Is Steve Jobs? [Apple]
Apparently Ebooks Are Now Killing The Desire To Wr...
Another Gingerbread build leaks for the HTC Thunde...
Daily Crunch: Finish Line Edition
PSX games now available in the Android Market, if ...
Ask DLS: What's your primary Web browser?
Daily Crunch: Rained Out Lunch Edition
How to Shut Up the Celebrities You Hate on TV [Vid...
RIM?s new Blackberry lineup
Flickr adds to sharing options, now easier to shar...
Limbic Zombie Gunship iOS Game Review
Is the HP TouchPad Untouchable?
Soundscience rockus 3D|2.1 Speaker System
Verizon Wireless promos $20 plan for the data relu...
The Funniest Ipad Apps On The Market
Breaksclusive: Mobile Nations takes over the Andro...
Help Bob make money in Sticks, a fun physics game
Samsung Hercules gets its Telus on in leaked glamo...
The 100th Engadget Mobile Podcast Giveaway: win an...
HP's Buying Giant Software Company Autonomy and Sp...
Daily Crunch: Ride The Lion Edition
iClooly Phonestand Review
AT&T Finally Gets Some 4G Hot Spots
Pricey New BlackBerry Has Way Too Many Caveats
Secondhand iPad ? A Good Idea?
Google Pushes for Greener Buildings, Leads by Exam...
Ask DLS: What's your favorite mobile app at the mo...
MetroPCS partners with Rhapsody to offer unlimited...
ASUS' next gen Eee Pad Transformer to be first Kal...
The Federal Government Wants You! (And Your App Id...
Daily Crunch: Rained Out Lunch Edition
Verizon embraces Google's Moto Mobility deal, hope...
Samsung's New Double-Speed SSDs [Hard Drives]
Microsoft trumpets Windows Phone 7 numbers on firs...
Microsoft trumpets Windows Phone 7 numbers on firs...
Apple's Spaceship Campus Is Bigger Than the Empire...
Facebook Forcing Drug Companies to Allow Pill Talk...
Motorola Atrix Gingerbread update now available in...
In-app payment support arrives on Android
HTC drags on the patent war, files yet another com...
HTML5 MP3 player lets you listen to your music lib...
Daily Crunch: Moon Phase Edition
Game Review ? Dead Space HD
Windows 8 now available to OEMs via Microsoft Conn...
Xiaomi Phone with MIUI OS: a $310 Android with 1.5...
Photovoltaic Cells In LCDs Could Recycle Wasted An...
Daily Crunch: Animal TV Edition
Jay-Z and Kanye Sample the Apollo 11 Launch [Video...
Take a spin in Tesla's Model S this October, if yo...
Make Your Case (iPad) for Bernie Madoff
Zoho Docs 2.0 adds iPad support
Otterbox iPad 2 Defender Case ? Black NEWEST MODEL...
Windows Phone 7 turned into Windows 7 controller, ...
iPhone 5 with LTE in carrier testing?
Firefox 6 breaks out ahead of schedule, gets offic...
Daily Crunch: Bike Path Edition
Google Voice Search learns Latin American Spanish,...
Google acquiring Motorola Mobility
Help Bob make money in Sticks, a fun physics game
Linux Distros: When It Absolutely, Positively Has ...
Evoluce Win&amp;I brings Kinect gesture controls t...
Windows 8 wallpaper available to download, Jupiter...
Paper Notebook With Built-In iPhone Hole
Tarzan Ball is a tricky hook-and-pull physics game...
Learn to Play Piano with the ION Piano Apprentice
Sony announcing three NEX lenses on August 24th?
Microsoft releases sexy Bing app for iPad
A Back-of-the-Hand Touch Interface That's Perfect ...
The Patent World War
Cloud Girlfriend will use a swarm of females to sa...
Firefox 4 Mobile officially released for Android a...
Apple patent application proves that Steve Jobs ha...
Libra for Android helps you track your weight usin...
Daily Crunch: Rained Out Lunch Edition
The IBM PC turns 30, we hurt our hands giving it b...
Windows 8 to feature adaptive Aero colorization, g...
Yeti Pro by Blue Microphone Review
Social Menaces
I Hope Temporary Teeth Tattoos Never Become Popula...
T-Mobile: overages on 200MB data plan in, throttli...
Sprint: Yeah, About That 4G BlackBerry Playbook We...
Cirque's GlidePoint NFC trackpad makes online shop...
VueZone Motion Detection Personal Video Network Re...
Android Touchscreen Control for your Canon EOS DSL...
Daily Crunch: VR Drone Edition
Hands-On With the IBM 5150, Thirty Years Later
Wrist sensor turns the back of your hand into a me...
Help Bob make money in Sticks, a fun physics game
Android game review: Tank Hero
Add a Windows 8 user tile to your Windows 7 taskba...
Jeff Bezos Wants to Put an Airbag on Your Smartpho...
App Review ? Universal Music DJ for iPad
Daily Crunch: Scope Edition
A Resting Place For China's Discarded Electronics ...
Dell announces Vostro V131 with USB 3.0, Core i3 a...
Vuzix Wrap 1200 brings 3D to the glasses for $500
BMW's Ultimate Drive app lets you share your favor...
Plywood Bike Is Beautifully Bendy
PSX games now available in the Android Market, if ...
3D glasses vending machine lets you be fashionable...
Live Long and Prosper ? Star Trek Theme Park
Corel releases VideoStudio Pro X4, we go hands on ...
DARPA's Falcon HTV-2 hypersonic aircraft launches ...
Bad Guys Access 75,000 University of Wisconsin Soc...
OmmWriter brings its clean, calm writing interface...
New Copper Underwear Eliminates the Fungus and Bac...
Windows 8 wallpaper available to download, Jupiter...
HP TouchPad price drop goes permanent (update: con...
Add a Windows 8 user tile to your Windows 7 taskba...
Logitech trots out another keyboard case, this tim...
Facebook Terms of Service Deciphered For Dudes [Fa...
Apple also files complaint against Motorola Xoom d...
Smart Phone Note iPhone 4 Case Is Actually Quite S...
Unreleased Sony Alpha A77 already nominated for Go...
WWW Turns 20!
Tablet Makers Hope Cheaper Means Better Sales
Install the Windows Phone 7 NoDo update regardless...
Interlocked is a three-dimensional brain teaser
Turn Your iPhone Into a Perfectly Vintage Super 8 ...
Brother PT 1290 Label Maker Review
Project Run-a-Way: The Craziest Combat Outfits [Vi...
California Booting Inmates off Facebook [Facebook]...
FoxLV2 Hi-Fi Bluetooth Speaker Now Available for C...
Google's Blogger platform adds five new HTML5 Dyna...
Rich Decibels Brainwave Disruptor scrambles your h...
Daily Crunch: VR Drone Edition
Now That We Know There's a Rat Among Us, What's Ne...
In Search of Buyers, HP Slashes TouchPad Prices
Fractal Combat for iPhone, iPad now available
Heyyyyy: A Simple Guide to Decipher Booty Call Tex...
Apple faces infringement lawsuit over fast booting...
Daily Crunch: Space Bird Edition
Free Fall High Score: Drop Your iPhone Off the Tal...
Inhabitat's Week in Green: world's largest skyscra...
Google Accidentally Posts Details About Its Next A...
Jailbreak iOS 4.3.1 on OS X or Windows with Pwnage...
Bing begins roll out of HTML5-enhanced search inte...
Speedtest.net overhauled with new look, new featur...
WhiteHat Security hacks into Chrome OS, exposes ex...
The World's First Flying Sphere Looks Like an Alie...
Google demands veto on OEM Android changes, stretc...
Boomshine is a soothing-yet-frustrating time waste...
HEX?s New Bag Line Houses iPads and Laptops
Pixel-Perfect Plywood Portraits
The Best Videos of the Week [Video]
AVG launches LiveKive cloud sync and backup tool
Du.static dust-busting concept clears the air, won...
Daily Crunch: Space Bird Edition
The Printable, Raceable R/C Koopa Shell [Video]
CrunchGear Week In Review: Independent Edition
Gadget Lab Podcast: Photon 4G, Droid X Problems an...
Buffalo CloudStor CS-WV/1D Review
Video shows progress bringing CyanogenMod to LG Op...
?Game For Kittens? And HeyZap Team Up For A Good C...
WhiteHat Security hacks into Chrome OS, exposes ex...
Buffalo CloudStor CS-WV/1D Review
BlackBerry Bold 9930 & BlackBerry Torch 9850 Comin...
Bing begins roll out of HTML5-enhanced search inte...
Leaked Android Music app images and hands-on revie...
iSites overhauled, now lets you publish cloud-base...
After Auction, Dropbox Close To Choosing Investors...
America's Super-Expensive F-35 Fleet Is Grounded (...
Torus is an impressive 3D Tetris game powered by H...
Eco Pod waterproof case keeps your device dry whil...
How to Take a Gorgeous Photo Like This on a Perfec...
Windows 8 now available to OEMs via Microsoft Conn...
Game Review ? Dead Space HD
The Week's Best Android Apps [Video]
Field of Streams, Part 2
The Week's Best Android Apps [Video]
Twidvid Android app now available
Personal Activity Monitor tracks time you spend us...
Brando's USB optical mouse doubles as a digital sc...
Daily Crunch: Finish Line Edition
MyNines Runs Out Of Cash; CEO Becomes VP At Rue La...
Bionic, SGSII, Prime,Vigor and more [From the Foru...
Taming the Lion: A Week With Apple's Latest Mac OS...
Gmail for Mobile gets a facelift, now ready for it...
Verizon Wireless year-end roadmap leaks, Android a...
Thinner Image Sensor That Doesn't Suck = Even Thin...
Nintendo 3DS Panda dev model hits Canadian eBay, r...
Flickr adds to sharing options, now easier to shar...
Bing begins roll out of HTML5-enhanced search inte...
Do You Use the Gmail Web App on Your iPhone? [Qotd...
Toyota pulls Cydia theme and ads to appease Apple
In-app payment support arrives on Android
Daily Crunch: Space Bird Edition
FYI Google, Facebook?s Former CTO Says It Would Ta...
The Horribly Dressed Men of Tech [Valleywag]
Pandigital unveils Nova, Planet and Star Android t...
The Latest Crazy Instagram Stats: 150 Million Phot...
Daily Crunch: Ride The Lion Edition
How To Defuse a Bomb [Bombs]
Amazon App Store: Rotten To The Core [Rant]
BlackBerry PlayBook will run Android apps by 'late...
RIM's BlackBerry Torch 9810 emerges on AT&amp;T's ...
TabletBuzzBlog News:Apple finds more ipad 2?s
Who should I follow? Engadget editors on Twitter
Torus is an impressive 3D Tetris game powered by H...
Taiwanese Foxconn robot spoof video
NOOK Color Bundle at QVC
Kanye West Dancing Triumphantly on Police Cars Sur...
Save your tabs and Panorama tab groups in Firefox ...
Switchkey ? Another Keychain Gadget You Don?t Need...
Train Track Therapy Is The Latest Health Craze In ...
Newly Declassified Israeli Missile Looks You in th...
Daily Crunch: Landscape Portrait Edition
Google Talk Guru answers questions via your IM app...
The First Image of the World's New Tallest Buildin...
Sprint getting a dual-core version of the XPRT, du...
Could This Epic Connect the Dot Mona Lisa Break a ...
Mitoza is a fun, freaky Web toy with an artistic l...
British royal family announces iOS and Android wed...
Pentile Screen, avoiding OTA updates [From the For...
Aw, Someone Strapped Little GPS Backpacks Onto Tou...
Engadget's back to school guide 2011
Anonymous, PayPal and WikiLeaks: The Grudge That K...
Accessory review: Seidio SURFACE Case for HTC Incr...
Seeking Tomorrow's Security Solutions Today, Part ...
Classic Shell now makes Internet Explorer 9 look l...
Coleman 10-Cup Portable Propane Coffee Maker with ...
Best Buy Releases Insignia TV With Built-In TiVo
HTML5 MP3 player lets you listen to your music lib...
tabletbuzzblog :Call of Duty: World at War Re-view...
iSites overhauled, now lets you publish cloud-base...
MayBe The ipad 2 Plus








          ► 
        


July
(333)

















About Me




sammy88wat



View my complete profile



















































Watermark template. Powered by Blogger.































