2011 April - J-H Post



J-H Post
We deliver news in the easiest way of our choice






Home
About









Archive for April, 2011

6.1 quake hits off coast of Panama (AP)
Posted by NN in April 30th 2011  


 MEXICO CITY – The U.S. Geological Survey says a moderate earthquake has struck off the coast of Panama, but there is no tsunami warning. The quake struck early Saturday, and there were no immediate reports of injuries or damage. The GPS says the magnitude-6.1 quake hit at 3:19 a.m. local time (0819 GMT), about 240 miles (385 kilometers) southwest of Panama City. The quake struck at a depth of 1.7 miles (2.8 kilometers) in the Pacific Ocean. Follow Yahoo! News on Twitter , become a fan on Facebook 
Continue reading " 6.1 quake hits off coast of Panama (AP) "


No Comment
under: Top News
Tags: 385-kilometers, city, coast, follow-yahoo, magnitude, pacific, panama, quake-hit, quake-struck, saturday, survey, world, yahoo

Digg it
Add to del.icio.us
Stumble it
add to technorati




Trump's latest scandal: draft-dodging (The Ticket)
Posted by JH in April 30th 2011  


 Yesterday, we reported on the growing number of accusations being lobbed at Donald Trump. And now, it seems, another one can be added to the list. This week, Trump told local Fox hosts at “Good Day New York” that he didn’t serve in Vietnam because he “got lucky” with his draft lottery number. But The Smoking Gun uncovered documents that say otherwise . “Selective Service records reveal that Trump, the fortunate son of a multimillionaire real estate baron, took repeated steps to avoid serving in Vietnam,” the website reported. Documents obtained by the Smoking Gun via a records request from the National Archives show that Trump received four student deferments and then a medical deferment following his graduation from Wharton. The documentary trail differs sharply from what Trump said during his “Good Day New York” interview Tuesday. When asked how he avoided service in Vietnam, Trump replied: Well, I actually got lucky because I had a very high draft number… I was sitting in college, watching. I was going to the Wharton School of Finance and I was watching as they did the draft numbers and I got a very, very high number and those numbers [they] never got up to. Watch video of the televised radio interview here via MyFoxNY . The Smoking Gun poked yet another hole in Trump’s story, reporting that Trump’s number (356) was called up in the Vietnam lottery on Dec. 1, 1969, a full 18 months after Trump graduated from Wharton. As Brian Bolduc of National Review Online noted yesterday, it was documented by Gwenda Blair in her book “Donald Trump: Master Apprentice” that Trump received a medical deferment “despite his athletic prowess.” As of midday Friday, Trump had yet to respond publicly to the reports. (Photo of Trump: Julie Jacobson/AP) 
Continue reading " Trump's latest scandal: draft-dodging (The Ticket) "


No Comment
under: Top News
Tags: book, brian-bolduc, draft, julie-jacobson, national, national-review, student, trump, wharton, wharton-school

Digg it
Add to del.icio.us
Stumble it
add to technorati




A police officer shouts instructions to the crowd as they are …
Posted by JH in April 30th 2011  


 (Reuters) – A police officer shouts instructions to the crowd as they are moved back from Buckingham Palace, ahead of the wedding reception, hosted by Britain’s Prince Charles for his son Prince William and daughter-in-law, Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge, in London April 29, 2011. Prince William married his fiancee Kate Middleton at Westminster Abbey on Friday. REUTERS/Darren Staples (BRITAIN – Tags: ENTERTAINMENT SOCIETY ROYALS) 


Continue reading " A police officer shouts instructions to the crowd as they are … "


No Comment
under: Top News
Tags: abbey-on-friday, buckingham, catherine, crowd, duchess, police-officer, prince-charles, staples

Digg it
Add to del.icio.us
Stumble it
add to technorati





« Older Entries




Search

 

 Recent Posts 
Libyan Fighters Surround Gadhafi Stronghold
Meet the Man Behind Nathan Drake
Beyonce Is Pregnant 2011 Announced at VMA’s FULL STORY!!!
Minecraft Survival - Why So Cold?
Party Rock Anthem-Kia Soul Hamster Commercial [HD]: Party Rock Anthem-LMFAO- MTV VMA’s

Recent CommentsBettie Nielsen on Assistant State Attorneys Linda Drane Burdick,foreground and …Michael on Assistant State Attorneys Linda Drane Burdick,foreground and …m thorsen on Assistant State Attorneys Linda Drane Burdick,foreground and …NadePaulKuciGravMcKi on The Prodigy - BreatheNadePaulKuciGravMcKi on Iran ships approach Suez, Israel takes "grave view" (Reuters)

Subscribes

























Categories 
business (2)

Comedy (337)

Entertainment (31)

Health (284)

Movie (388)

People (6)

science (1)

sports (1)

Technology (49)

Top News (2530)

topstories (1)

travel (2)

Uncategorized (11)

us (5)

Video (916)

world (6)


Counter
592757 Visitors

Tags


britain
british
business
california
china
city
Comedy
country
editing
Entertainment
family
film
follow-yahoo
Funny
government
Health
healthnews
hollywood
house
life
media
mexico
Movie
music
north
obama
office
People
photo
president
review
Science
table-border
the
time
trailer
united-states
university
Video
White
wife
world
written
yahoo
york


Spam Blocked 14,006 spam comments blocked byAkismet


















Plugin by wpburn.com wordpress themes
 







©2006-2011 J-H Post







