Telecom News Now - The JS&A Blog



Telecom News Now – The JS&A Blog The First Name In Telecom Public Relations & Marketing











Blog Home
Company
Services
Portfolio
Clients
Partners
Contact
JS&A Home











Web Wise Kids’ Dancing Under the Stars Event


Posted by Roxie_Sarhangi on September 1st, 2011


Web Wise Kids’ Dancing Under the Stars Event
 
 
 
If you’re in the vicinity of Southern California or will be visiting the sunny state on September 15th and are looking for something to do— look no more! Join Web Wise Kids, a national non-profit and recognized leader in Internet safety education, in celebrating their 2nd Annual Champions for Children event.
The event is in honor of Web Wise Kids’ 11 years of teaching kids, parents and the community the value of making safe and wise choices in a technologically evolving world. Web Wise Kids will be announcing the recipient of the honored “Champions for Children” award for outstanding work in Internet Safety. It will be an unforgettable night with great food, a silent auction, entertainment, dancing and most of all FUN!
The guest speaker will be actress, Elisa Donovan along with special performances from Dancing with the Stars’, Kelly Connolly and Andrew Pirozzi! Keep your eyes peeled and your feet steady as they entertain us with their fantastic moves!  Expert dance instructors from Cheryl Burke Dance will also be strutting their stuff and giving mini lessons for those that want to learn! How fun is that? Celebrity silent auction items include donations from Alyssa Milano (congrats on baby Milo!), Cheryl Burke and many others.
When/Where:
Thursday, September 15, 2011
7:00pm – 8:00pm — Cocktail Hour and Silent Auction
8:00pm – 10:30pm — Program, Awards, Entertainment and Dancing
The Turnip Rose – Celebration Room, 1901 Newport Boulevard
 Costa Mesa, California
 
Tickets are only $50 per person. To purchase tickets simply click here: http://www.webwisekids.org/events_entry/champions_for_children_event
SEE YOU THERE!
Sponsor opportunities are still available, for more information, call Judi Westberg Warren (714) 435-2885 x. 200
If you are unable to attend the event and want to participate in the silent auction or make a donation, please contact (866) WEB-WISE toll free or 714-435-2885 x 203.






Events, Media, technology trends, Telecommunications No Comments »




Hunter Newby to Speak at Kaufman Brothers Annual Conference


Posted by Jaymie Scotto on August 31st, 2011


Allied Fiber’s CEO, Hunter Newby is scheduled to speak at the upcoming Kaufman Brothers Annual Investor Conference in New York City on September 7-8. Kaufman Brothers is the country’s largest minority owned and operated investment banking and advisory firm focused on Technology, Media, Telecom (TMT), Green Technology and Healthcare. The conference brings together industry leaders and investors in the telecom and communications sector to discuss the latest trends. Hunter will provide an overview of Allied Fiber’s unique dark fiber network system the company is constructing.
Allied Fiber owns, builds and will operate its own network-neutral, fiber optic cable system, connecting sub-sea landing points, cell towers, data centers, carrier hotels, colocation huts, enterprise buildings, schools and governments with next generation, long-haul and short-haul dark fiber. This necessary dark fiber network, planned to unite along its route the continental United States, is created to address America’s need for more broadband access, wireless backhaul, data center distribution and lower latency communications services.
To schedule a meeting with Allied Fiber at this or other upcoming conferences, contact jsa_allied@jaymiescotto.com. For more information on Allied Fiber, visit www.alliedfiber.com.






Broadband, business partnership, colocation, Commercial Real Estate Technology, Conferences, dark fiber, Data Center, economy, Events, Global Telecommunications, Marketing, Meetings, mobile, Optical Networking, partnerships, technology trends, Telecom, telecom conference, Telecommunications, Wholesale Telecom 2 Comments »




OSN is Hiring!


Posted by Ilissa Miller on August 30th, 2011


Have a job?  Need a job?  Here’s a job for telecom professionals that may intrigue you:
Title: Data Center and Network Sales Account Executive     
Location: North Carolina
Description: Experienced and driven Data Center and Network Sales Account Executive needed for the #1 telecommunications company, as ranked by the 2011 Inc. 500 list of the fastest growing companies in America.   Here’s a chance for a driven, independently motivated individual to directly add to the growth of this dynamic company.  The job entails selling and promoting OSN’s Greensboro, NC data center to Fortune 1000 businesses.  In addition to this data center, the account executive will have an opportunity to sell facilities-based voice and data solutions, leveraging 100’s of global supplier relationships managed and developed by OSN’s experienced leadership team. 
Requirements: More than 3 years selling to Fortune 1000 businesses required.  The right candidate will have a  customer-centric and consultative sales approach with strong networking and dynamic interpersonal skills.  Excellent presentation skills are a plus, along with word, excel and power point computer skills.  The company provides unlimited growth opportunities and offers a dynamic learning environment. 
To be considered for this position, email: careers@onesourcenetworks.com 
Good Luck!
 






Telecommunications No Comments »




FiberMedia to Participate at Kaufman Brothers’ Fall Investor Conference


Posted by Ilissa Miller on August 30th, 2011


Each year, Kaufman Brothers invites emerging and leading technology companies to participate in its investor conference that focuses on Technology, Media, Telecom (TMT), Green Technology, and Health care sectors.  The 2011 event takes place September 7-8 in New York City.  FiberMedia Group, a managed data center provider with five facilities throughout the New York Metro region and one in Cleveland, OH has been invited to participate on a panel that will address a variety of elements important to investing in the communications and technology sectors.  Michael Bucheit, CEO of FiberMedia, will represent the company to share insights on its SAS70 Type 2 data centers.  The company offers more than 90,000 square feet of colocation and on-demand cloud computing solutions to enterprise businesses.  This is a key differentiator for the company as it provides much needed disaster recovery and business continuity services to companies with a need for a reliable and secure presence in the New York Metro area. 
Just this week, the area was hit hard by Hurricane Irene.  Many of FiberMedia’s solutions specifically address the needs of technology, media and telecom companies in the area that could be affected by such natural disasters.  With dual power feeds, redundant carrier-neutral network providers offered, as well as business continuity space consisting of shared desktops, private corporate suites and more, FiberMedia’s solutions are raising the bar for managed data center service providers.
Their motto – enterprise-class services on-demand – perfectly fits the company’s sought after leadership as well.  Bucheit brings a wealth of experience and knowledge to the company.  Leading FiberMedia for nearly a year, Michael offers insights from the technology management and finance industries.  His previous experience includes responsibility for corporate development as well as C-Labs at Consonus Technologies.  He also built and managed a $70MM IT services business for GE Capital serving Fortune 1000 clients.  He astutely understands the needs of major corporations and growing businesses and relishes in helping to provide them with solutions that alleviate technology and communication problems.  With on-demand solutions and a diverse footprint in the market, Bucheit and his team of leaders proudly present custom solutions that meet the specific needs of businesses.
To find out more about FiberMedia, visit www.fibermedia.net.   To meet with Michael Bucheit at the Kaufman Brothers’ conference next week, email jsa_fibermedia@jaymiescotto.com.






Blogs, Telecommunications No Comments »




Irene’s Wrath Not a Match for FiberMedia’s Well Constructed and Secure Data Center Facilities


Posted by Ilissa Miller on August 29th, 2011


While Hurricane Irene pummeled the East Coast, businesses and residences throughout the New York Metro area braced for the worst.  Many were affected indeed.  Reading an article about Mamaroneck, a town in Lower Westchester, just 32 miles north of Manhattan, 40% of its village was affected by her wrath. Flooding, wide-spread power outages, and downed trees were the bulk of her affects.  The good news, businesses that rely on FiberMedia’s data centers, located throughout the New York Metro area, were kept 100% secure.   
Data centers are a business’s technology and telecommunications foundation, selecting the right partner – before a crisis – is the best way to secure one of your businesses most coveted asset – its data.  FiberMedia’s facilities throughout Northern New Jersey, lower Manhattan, Brooklyn and Westchester all reported no customer incidents and 100% up-time during and after Hurricane Irene’s visit to the area.  Targeted as a prime area for destruction, FiberMedia’s facilities proved to be a safe haven for data, equipment and business operations.
FiberMedia reports that its business continuity center in Westchester has extra seats – for more information on how you can protect your business and assure your workers stay productive after a destructive event, visit www.fibermedia.net.
 
 
 
 
This blog post was re-published from an original post located at Telecom News Now.
 






Telecommunications No Comments »




One Source Networks and David’s Bridal – The Perfect Marriage!


Posted by DeanPerrine on August 25th, 2011


I live in Chesterton, Indiana (Great open air market, no movie theater, etc.), not exactly the most metropolitan of places, but there are 4 David’s Bridal stores within 100 miles of my house – which suggests that either the Greater Chicagoland area is a hot-bed for brides or David’s has got a healthy footprint. The fact is, David’s Bridal has more than 300 storefront locations throughout the US, Canada and Puerto Rico. So when the company that serves this many brides-in-waiting went looking for telecommunications services, they meant business!
David’s Bridal sought a solution that could augment its existing MPLS network, and provide the company with reliable, cost-effective backup connectivity that could support real-time applications such as VoIP, its centrally hosted wedding system, and credit card authorizations.  With a footprint that spans 49 states, the company also required expanded coverage of its voice network, additional Internet bandwidth, and increased reliability and quality of service – guaranteed across its entire retail footprint. See? Business! It’s no wonder then, that David’s looked to One Source Networks to meet these critical requirements.
“The stakes are high in the wedding business and having high speed access to our central wedding system and full access to all VoIP lines for inbound and outbound calls are two things that are non-negotiable.  Though our network outages were infrequent, our secondary network performed subpar, and as our bandwidth needs increased, we knew we had to find an alternative solution.   My challenge to the team was to implement a backup network that offered transparent connectivity for about the same cost as our current backup environment,” states Caryn Furtaw, CIO for David’s Bridal.
After a thorough review of David’s Bridal’s needs, One Source Networks recommended a turn-key  solution that would provide a converged voice and data networking service with wireless Evolution-Data-Optimized (EVDO) to provide network diversity and last mile local loop redundancy for its stores.  OSN also implemented a feature that allowed David’s Bridal to expand its use of SIP trunking by offering additional DID coverage for its stores while providing additional cost savings. OSN’s solution was not only unique, but offered the most ubiquitous coverage at the best rates.
You could call it – the perfect marriage!
To more about the David’s Bridal – One Source Networks solution, visit:
http://www.onesourcenetworks.com/news/OSN_DavidsBridal_PR_FINAL_8_25_11.pdf
To learn more about One Source Networks, visit. www.onesourcenetworks.com
 






cloud, SIP, Telecom, Telecommunications, VoIP 1 Comment »




Billing Data Processing = Quality Customer Service! Yes, really!


Posted by DeanPerrine on August 24th, 2011


Chances are unless you live in California and speak Spanish, you haven’t heard of Blue Casa Telephone. But if you talk to any of their customers you’re likely to learn a few things. No. 1 – Blue Casa goes beyond simply providing telecommunications services and provides culturally relevant services that meet the unique needs of each of their customers. No. 2 – They do it really well!
One of the ways they accomplish this is through automation, yup, automation – more specifically, billing data process automation. Blue Casa Telephone employs a SaaS based billing tool provided by Contact Telecom (Billing Data Analyzer – BDA) that effectively manages and processes all of Blue Casa’s, billing, usage, and invoice data, in addition to other business-critical revenue and cost assurance analysis and reporting services. The Contact Telecom solution allows Blue Casa to focus on their customers, not paper.
“With tens of thousands residential and business customers and still growing, most of whom are bilingual and a good portion of which participate in the California LifeLine program, Contact Telecom offered Blue Casa a scalable, flexible and comprehensive solution to a particularly complex challenge with respect to our data processing and billing,” states Jeff Compton, CEO of Blue Casa Telephone. The Contact Telecom solution allows the company to maintain its personal touch and positions it to remain profitable in the future
Automation Drives Profitability! (And Customer Service too!)
To learn more about Contact Telecom, visit: http://www.contacttelecom.com/
 






cloud, cloud computing, Software-as-a-Service, Telecommunications No Comments »




5.8 Quake Up the East Coast Raises Security Questions for Telecom


Posted by Jaymie Scotto on August 23rd, 2011


Debris covers the isle at the Miller's Mart food store in Mineral, VA after 5.8 quake hit the area.
As we march solemnly towards the tenth anniversary of the 9/11 attacks and as Hurricane Irene threatens the entire East Coast of the US, today we experienced a rare, 5.8-magnitude earthquake in Virginia, shutting down a nearby nuclear power plant this afternoon and sending out seismic waves felt by millions from Georgia to New England.  The unusual quake forced many people to evacuate office buildings, such as in DC and NYC, though no major damage or injuries have been reported. Perhaps most notable is that a quake this strong has not occurred in this area since 1897.  Notable too is the reach of the quake.  As the underlying bedrock is largely a solid sheet, earthquake waves traveled as far north as Canada.
So what does this new “rattle” mean for telecom?  According to CNN, “a surge in calls by cell phone users after the event affected service in many areas”.   But beyond this, what about the physical networks that our communications depend upon each day?  What about the networks that first responders and financial institutions and hospitals rely on?  Do we have physical cable security in the event of natural or manmade catastrophe?  Are we preparing today for the worst case scenerios of tomorrow?
Perhaps it is poignant to revisit the words of  Rob Powell of Telecom Ramblings from April 2009:
It is common knowledge that there are major communication hubs throughout the United States where global, national, regional and local networks converge to interconnect with one another.  One of the real concerns should be coming from customers who perhaps should be assured their connections are traversed along protected rings that provide redundancy should there be a cable break, to ensure all communications are re-routed.
“Hibernia Atlantic has been preaching about this threat for years, warning the implications of a catastrophic network failure and its impact on national security, the banking/finance systems, communication and broadcast systems,” commented Eric Gutshall, Executive Vice President of Sales and Marketing at Hibernia Atlantic.  Mr. Gutshall continues that “Hibernia also stated that there even needs to be national security for submarine cables and Cable Landing Stations, as well as terrestrial infrastructure in major communication hubs.  Our cable is purposely built outside of major metropolitan areas such as New York and London to provide more security as required by our customers.”
According to the company, Hibernia Atlantic has engaged with the Department of Homeland Security to request they view Hibernia Atlantic’s submarine cable system and cable stations as critical infrastructure due to the high-volume of Financial, communication, broadcast, Government and Internet traffic that is handled by the company.
Hibernia Atlantic has designed its network with ‘Security and Diversity’ in mind from day one, knowing full well that a cut of its subsea cable could impact a wide-variety of business communications around the world.   In fact, Mr. Gutshall has presented on the choke points and communication arteries connecting Cable Landing Stations to the metropolitan areas, to the Federal Reserve and 40 key and top members of the financial community.
Recently the company has also launched its new product, ‘Hibernia Secure’, for the financial community on its Global Financial Network (GFN).  To ensure safer and faster trading, ‘Hibernia Secure’ offers one failover route that avoids common, congested corridors, such as the waterways around New York and London, in case of regional failure.  ’Hibernia Secure’ will automatically re-route GFN traffic to the client’s secondary route choice in the unlikely event of signal loss.  Service will then be re-routed back to the primary or faster route as soon as that route becomes available.
Hibernia Atlantic has been a leader in communicating these issues to both network operators and customers, reiterating the importance of knowing what network services you use and what features make it resilient.  Hibernia has also been a leader in delivering more secure network choices and solutions.  It’s no wonder the company’s tagline is  ‘Security through Diversity.”
 
 
 
 
 
 
 






Telecommunications No Comments »




OSN Ranks No. 9 on Inc. 500 List!


Posted by DeanPerrine on August 23rd, 2011


BAM! And just like that, One Source Networks (OSN) is recognized by Inc. Magazine in its 30th annual list of America’s fastest-growing private companies. More affectionately known as – The Inc. 500, OSN is recognized as one of the fastest growing private companies in the US. And not simply “one of,” but sitting at an impressive #9! OSN is the fastest growing private telecommunications service provider – In -The – Country!   And if that wasn’t enough, OSN placed #1 in its category – it is the fastest growing Telecommunications provider on the list.
The Inc. 500 list represents the most comprehensive look at the most important segment of the economy—America’s independent entrepreneurs. Companies such as Microsoft, Vizio, Oracle, and many other well-known names gained early exposure as members of the Inc. 500. Sooo, yeah, pretty good company there.
OSN is a facilities-based carrier agnostic telecommunications provider predominantly serving fortune 1000 enterprise customers. The company attributes its growth to its dedication to providing the highest quality services while adhering to a customer-centric philosophy that runs throughout the company.
That’s what they say; here’s what their customers are saying!
http://www.onesourcenetworks.com/case-studies. While you’re at it, check out another award recently won by OSN.
For more information about One Source Networks, visit: www.onesourcenetworks.com
 






awards, Blogs, cloud, IP Solutions, SIP, Telecom, Telecommunications, VoIP 1 Comment »




Global Capacity’s Greg Hough to Direct the Strategy of One Marketplace Access Exchange


Posted by laurensauer on August 22nd, 2011


To meet the ongoing market demand for its One Marketplace Access Exchange, Global Capacity has appointed Greg Hough to drive strategy of the platform.   Since May, when the company announced the uptake and growth of the platform, One Marketplace Access Exchange continues to exceed market expectations.  Many network operators struggle to price, provision and install last mile circuits due to cost, lack of reach, inability to source, etc.  This platform solves that problem, providing users visibility into the market based on price, location, and ability to deliver, providing a <60 second turn-around time for an accurate price quote.
The One Marketplace Access Exchange is a more streamlined solution to accurately price, buy, provision and track order implementation of global access circuits.  It is also a channel for providers to offer their on-net access capabilities to a demand driven marketplace.
Read the full release here. To learn more about Global Capacity and its innovative solutions to streamlining the procurement of global access networks, visit http://globalcapacity.com/ or call 312-673-2400.






Global Telecommunications, Telco 2.0, Telecom, Telecommunications, Wholesale Carrier, Wholesale Telecom No Comments »



Previous Entries 




		Recent Comments | Recent Posts

	



Recent Posts


Web Wise Kids’ Dancing Under the Stars Event
09-01-2011


Hunter Newby to Speak at Kaufman Brothers Annual Conference
08-31-2011


OSN is Hiring!
08-30-2011


FiberMedia to Participate at Kaufman Brothers’ Fall Investor Conference
08-30-2011


Irene’s Wrath Not a Match for FiberMedia’s Well Constructed and Secure Data Center Facilities
08-29-2011






Recent Comments

Melani Goodall: I have mastered some essential things through your blog post...
Caren: Produce your own entirely free iphone ring-tones with your m...
blogging: Hey! Someone in my Myspace group shared this website with us...
Click Conspiracy Scam: I discovered your weblog website on google and test a couple...
tduggan: Another great write up, should be interesting to see the new...







 Subscribe in a reader
Recent Tweets@rtehrani @xklllc on behalf of XKL, LLC. thanks for the retweet Rich!  Best of luck in Austin. about 7 minutes ago from webin reply to rtehraniHealthcare Technology in the 21st Century http://t.co/oVunVsB about 10 hours ago from LinkedInArchives 
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
December 2009
November 2009
October 2009
September 2009
August 2009
July 2009
June 2009
May 2009
April 2009
March 2009
February 2009
January 2009
December 2008
November 2008
October 2008
September 2008
August 2008
July 2008

Recent CommentsHunter Newby to Speak at Kaufman Brothers Annual Conference … | Telecom Carriers on Hunter Newby to Speak at Kaufman Brothers Annual ConferenceHunter Newby to Speak at Kaufman Brothers Annual Conference … | Telecom Carriers on Hunter Newby to Speak at Kaufman Brothers Annual ConferenceMelani Goodall on Web Wise Kids to Demonstrate Its Multi-Lingual Cyber-Safety Interactive Games at Capitol Hill’s Largest Tech Policy ExhibitionCaren on One Source Networks and David’s Bridal – The Perfect Marriage!OSN Ranks No. 9 on Inc. 500 List! | Telecom News Now – The JS&A Blog | Telecom Carriers on OSN Ranks No. 9 on Inc. 500 List!



