Pacific Progress




























Anonymous
Art
Green
Health
Living
Music
Other
Police State
Politics
ProgressCast
Revolution
Tech
Video
World



















Main Menu

Home
PROOF
How To Fight Back
ProgressCast
Who We Are
Projects
 

 





Polls













What do you think will come first, false flag terrorist attack or economic collapse?
 False flag terrorist attack
 Economic collapse
View Results


 Loading ...
Polls Archive 

 





Recent 7 Posts










 
Labor’s Demise As A Countervailing Power: “Labor Day” should be renamed “Corporation Day” or “War Day” – by Dr. Paul Craig Roberts
Are Wikileaks and Anonymous Hackers All There Is Left We Can Rely on?
Full-Blown Civil War Erupts On Wall Street: As Reality Finally Hits The Financial Elite, They Start Turning On Each Other
Calm before the storm
World Bank’s Zoellick: “World Economy Is Entering A New Danger Zone”
The Dow Peaks Of 1937 And 2007
Global economy in danger zone: Zoellick | Reuters



 





dutchsinse's channel










 




9/2/2011 -- HAARP Ring outbreak ND, SD, NE, MN, WI, MI, OH, TN, WV, NC, PA.





8/24/2011 -- Global Earthquake overview -- uptick OBVIOUS -- tectonic unrest continues





8/19/2011 -- ANOTHER 6.3 magnitude earthquake in Japan





8/19/2011 -- HAARP ring confirmation = Severe in Springfield, MO and Duluth, MN DIRECTLY





8/17/2011 -- 6.2 magnitude earthquake in Japan = three 6.0+ this week





8/15/2011 -- CONFIRMED ! SMOKE and STEAM coming out from the ground in south California


See more videos 

 





PacificProgressCast










 




08-27-11 Hurricane Irene HAARP Weather Modification





08 27 11 Perfect Storm for NWO ELENIN Nibiru False Flag Hoax Part 2





08-27-11 Perfect Storm for NWO ELENIN Nibiru False Flag Hoax Part 2





08-21-2011 Perry Ben Stein Ron Paul Hacked Restored





08-17-11 Short Sell Ban





08-17-11 ELENIN Nibiru False Flag Hoax


See more videos 

 

 
















 
The Global Insurrection has started. Humanity is aware of the New World Order. The global political awakening is spreading like wildfire. Arm yourself with the truth. Spread this website and Infowars anywhere and everywhere you can.



LIBYA R.I.P. …



… THE ROTHSCHILDS OWN YOU NOW


But through the smoke and fire in Libya will liberty and freedom be spread across our globe!








 


 















Labor’s Demise As A Countervailing Power: “Labor Day” should be renamed “Corporation Day” or “War Day” – by Dr. Paul Craig RobertsPublished September 5, 2011 






It is Labor Day weekend, 2011, but labor has nothing to celebrate. The jobs that once gave American workers a stake in capitalism have left and gone away. Corporations in pursuit of near-term profits have moved labor’s jobs to China,Continue reading → 


Posted in Living, Police State, Politics, World | Tagged economy, labor day, unemployment, War | Leave a comment 















Are Wikileaks and Anonymous Hackers All There Is Left We Can Rely on?Published September 4, 2011 

Their ability to bring powerful giants to heel is as compelling as the mythical Robin Hood’s battle with a haughty medieval aristocracy.
via Are Wikileaks and Anonymous Hackers All There Is Left We Can Rely on? : Indybay.



Posted in Anonymous, Police State, Politics, Revolution, Tech, World | Tagged Anonymous, democracy, hackers, wikileaks | Leave a comment 















Full-Blown Civil War Erupts On Wall Street: As Reality Finally Hits The Financial Elite, They Start Turning On Each OtherPublished September 4, 2011 

 
 
 

 
Finally, after trillions in fraudulent activity, trillions in bailouts, trillions in printed money, billions in political bribing and billions in bonuses, the criminal cartel members on Wall Street are beginning to get what they deserve. AsContinue reading → 


Posted in Living, Politics, World | Tagged collapse, economy, Wall Street | Leave a comment 















Calm before the stormPublished September 4, 2011 


artwork by and thanks to alex schafer for such wonderful iconic creations of truth and reality
In today’s world, your worldview can very easily be programmed, and is programmed into your head regardless. You learn what you see, and ifContinue reading → 


Posted in Living, Other, Police State, Politics, ProgressCast, Revolution, World | Tagged 9/11, agenda 21, Banks, British, central banks, chemtrails, collapse, control system, Department of Homeland Security, dollar, economy, fear, federal reserve, future, geoengineering, gold, guns, Homeland Security, humanity, ICLEI, imperialism, inflation, market, military, Patriot Act, prediction, predictions, private central banks, silver, terror, terrorism, US, War, war on terror, wheat, world government | Leave a comment 















World Bank’s Zoellick: “World Economy Is Entering A New Danger Zone”Published September 3, 2011 

World Bank president Robert Zoellick warned of “a new danger zone” at a conference today in Beijing, with threats including record food prices, volatility in commodity markets, and debt crises in the developed world.
Zoellick says the world needs ChinaContinue reading → 


Posted in Politics, World | Tagged collapse, economy, Zoellick | Leave a comment 















The Dow Peaks Of 1937 And 2007Published September 3, 2011 

In response to a special request last February, I created an overlay of two major Dow peaks — the 1937 high following the Crash of 1929 and the 2007 all-time high.
Now, a little over six months later, here isContinue reading → 


Posted in Politics, World | Tagged collapse, Dow, economy, index, market, stocks | Leave a comment 















Global economy in danger zone: Zoellick | ReutersPublished September 3, 2011 

(Reuters) – The world economy is stepping into a “new danger zone,” World Bank President Robert Zoellick said on Saturday, as growth slows and investor confidence weakens.
via Global economy in danger zone: Zoellick | Reuters.



Posted in Politics, World | Tagged collapse, crisis, economy, World Bank, Zoellick | Leave a comment 















Senior IMF Economist Expects Hard Default For Greece. Soon.Published September 3, 2011 

According to a senior IMF economist who wasn’t identified, Greece will likely face a “hard default” well before March 2012.
It could happen during 2011, and perhaps after the current round of negotiations. This acknowledgement from someone very close toContinue reading → 


Posted in Politics, World | Tagged collapse, crisis, debt, default, Greece, IMF | Leave a comment 















» Vaccine Propaganda Continues Despite Evidence of Harm Alex Jones’ Infowars: There’s a war on for your mind!Published September 3, 2011 

» Vaccine Propaganda Continues Despite Evidence of Harm Alex Jones’ Infowars: There’s a war on for your mind!.



Posted in Health, Living, Police State | Tagged vaccines | Leave a comment 















Germany Wants Renminbi To Join The IMF Currency BasketPublished September 3, 2011 

China has long pushed for better representation of developing currencies, specifically the renminbi, in the currency basket behind the IMF’s special drawing rights (SDRs). Now, German deputy finance minister Jörg Asmussen has backed the move according to Financial Times.
viaContinue reading → 


Posted in Politics, World | Tagged IMF, Renminbi, SDR | Leave a comment 















Nuclear expert says Fukushima radiation coming to USA, massive cover-up under wayPublished September 2, 2011 

One thing is for certain. The Fukushima radioactive leaks will continue at high amounts longer than Chernobyl did. Fukushima’s radioactive fallout will be affecting more people, crops, and of course sea life than Chernobyl’s disaster caused. But just like theContinue reading → 


Posted in Health, Living, Politics, World | Tagged coverup, Fukushima, NRC, nuclear, radiation | Leave a comment 















Dominion Says Crack Found at North Anna Containment Building – BloombergPublished September 2, 2011 

Dominion Resources Inc. found a small crack on a wall with “no safety significance” in a room of a containment building at the North Anna nuclear plant after an Aug. 23 earthquake in Virginia, a company official said.
The fissureContinue reading → 


Posted in Health | Tagged containment, crack, North Anna, nuclear, radiation, Virginia | Leave a comment 















How fear of Agenda 21 infiltrated mainstream Florida politicsPublished September 2, 2011 

“When I started learning about this silent invasion of our country’s sovereignty,” Miller, “I was literally flabbergasted.”
via How fear of Agenda 21 infiltrated mainstream Florida politics | Florida Independent.



Posted in Living, Police State, Politics, World | Tagged agenda 21, Florida, ICLEI | Leave a comment 















UCLA Student Joins Al Qaeda in LibyaPublished September 2, 2011 

UCLA student Chris Jeon is on the ultimate summer vacation — fighting Ghadafi loyalists in Libya.
UCLA Student Joins Libyan Rebels Fighting Ghadafi – ABC News.



Posted in Politics, World | Tagged al-qaeda, libya, NATO, student, UCLA | Leave a comment 















DHS warns of planned Anonymous attacksPublished September 2, 2011 

Bulletin from feds highlights group’s Occupy Wall Street, Operation Facebook, Project Mayhem campaigns
via DHS warns of planned Anonymous attacks – Computerworld.



Posted in Anonymous, Police State, Politics, Revolution, Tech, World | Tagged Anonymous, DHS, OpOccupyWallStreet | Leave a comment 















Δ9-Tetrahydrocannabinol-Induced Apoptosis in Jurkat Leukemia T Cells Is Regulated by Translocation of Bad to MitochondriaPublished September 2, 2011 

Δ9-Tetrahydrocannabinol-Induced Apoptosis in Jurkat Leukemia T Cells Is Regulated by Translocation of Bad to Mitochondria.



Posted in Health | Tagged marijuana, THC | Leave a comment 















Govt Study Proves THC From Cannabis Destroys Leukemia, Breast And Lung Cancer CellsPublished September 2, 2011 

Abstract
Plant-derived cannabinoids, including Delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), induce apoptosis in leukemic cells, although the precise mechanism remains unclear. In the current study, we investigated the effect of THC on the upstream and downstream events that modulate the extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK)Continue reading → 


Posted in Health, Living, Tech | Tagged cancer, cannabis, cure, leukimia, marijuana, THC | Leave a comment 















Exposed: Military contractors hired to create fake Facebook accounts, infiltrate opposing groupsPublished September 2, 2011 

Exposed: Military contractors hired to create fake Facebook accounts, infiltrate opposing groups.



Posted in Police State | Leave a comment 















Autistic man with toy gun killed by Miami police officersPublished September 2, 2011 

North Miami Beach police officers shot and killed Ernest Vassell, a 57-year-old autistic man, on Wednesday after responding to calls about a man seen walking with a rifle. But the gun was later determined to be a realistic-looking toy.
TheContinue reading → 


Posted in Living, Police State | Tagged autism, autistic, killing, police | Leave a comment 















Anger as Wikileaks releases all US cables unredactedPublished September 2, 2011 

Whistleblower site Wikileaks has made its entire uncensored archive of leaked US diplomatic cables available online.
The group said on its Twitter site that all 251,287 cables had been published in a searchable format.
The Guardian and three other newspapersContinue reading → 


Posted in Anonymous, Police State, Politics, Revolution, Tech, World | Tagged cables, unredacted, wikileaks | Leave a comment 















Libya: NATO Acquires Military Outpost In Third ContinentPublished September 2, 2011 

Interview conducted John Robles on August 27 with Rick Rozoff, the manager of the Stop NATO website and a Correspondent of Global Research at www.globalresearch.ca
 
via Libya: NATO Acquires Military Outpost In Third Continent.



Posted in Politics, World | Tagged libya, military industrial complex, NATO | Leave a comment 















Light On, Brah! Flare Surfing Is Both The Coolest And The Hottest Thing On WaterPublished September 2, 2011 

There’s nothing finer than sitting on the beach, watching the surfers tear it up.
Except perhaps sitting on the beach, watching the surfers light it up.
Not many people put fire and water together, but a member of the RedContinue reading → 


Posted in Art, Living, Video | Tagged flare surfing, surfing | Leave a comment 















» Update: You Tube Restores Alex Jones’ View CountPublished September 1, 2011 

 
 
 

 
 
» Update: You Tube Restores Alex Jones’ View Count Alex Jones’ Infowars: There’s a war on for your mind!.



Posted in Police State, Politics, Tech | Tagged alex jones, google, view count, youtube | Leave a comment 















Greece to miss 2011 deficit target, privatization goals in doubtPublished September 1, 2011 

Not good.     :/
IMF, EU and ECB inspectors started combing through Greece’s books and laws on Monday to decide whether it has made enough progress to receive a new tranche of the bailout that has staved off GreekContinue reading → 


Posted in Politics, World | Tagged bailout, ECB, EU, Greece, IMF | Leave a comment 















You Tube Censors Again: Undermining Alex Jones’ ranking by scrubbing view countPublished September 1, 2011 

Google subsidiary You Tube has once again engaged in soft censorship of The Alex Jones Channel, subtly resetting its “channel views” to a mere 47,900 despite more than 134 million total upload views. The previous channel view number was much,Continue reading → 


Posted in Police State, Politics, Tech | Tagged alex jones, censorship, google, youtube | Leave a comment 















9/11: New 15-Minute Documentary You Have To SeePublished September 1, 2011 

9/11: New 15-Minute Documentary You Have To See | 9-11 News | World for 9-11 Truth | W9T.org.




Posted in Police State, Politics, Revolution, Video | Tagged 9/11, WTC 7, WTC7 | Leave a comment 















ANTISEC OWNS TEXAS, ATTACKS DOZENS OF POLICE CHIEF EMAILS AND SYSTEMSPublished September 1, 2011 

ANTISEC MESSES WITH TEXAS, ATTACKS DOZENS OF POLICE CHIEF EMAILS AND SYSTEMS | #ANTISEC #ANONYMOUS #CHINGALAMIGRA #FREETOPIARY FREEMERCEDES #FREEANONS.
 



Posted in Anonymous, Revolution, Tech, Video | Tagged Anonymous, police, Texas | Leave a comment 















Texas law enforcement Hacked by #Antisec and #FreeAnons – 3GB of data leakedPublished September 1, 2011 

Texas Police Chiefs Association Website hacked by Anonymous Hackers for Antisec Operation. Hacker deface their website and post 3GB of data on it with Message “In retaliation for the arrests of dozens of alleged Anonymous suspects, weopened fire on dozensContinue reading → 


Posted in Anonymous, Police State, Politics, Revolution, Tech | Tagged Anonymous, police, Texas | Leave a comment 















» Ron Paul: Feds Preparing For “Breakdown Of Law And Order”Published September 1, 2011 

Asked about his recent comments regarding how authorities in the United States were “setting the stage for violence in this country,” Presidential candidate Ron Paul elaborated on how the federal government was preparing for a “breakdown in law and order.”Continue reading → 


Posted in Living, Police State, Politics, Revolution, Video | Tagged breakdown, civil unrest, control, crisis, Ron Paul 2012, violence | Leave a comment 















Plein Air Painting of Bank Freaks Out Police, BankersPublished September 1, 2011 

 

“Chase Burning,” courtesy of artist Alex Schaefer
A plein air painter’s series on burning banks has police and bankers genuinely freaked out.
They’re worried, of course, that the artist in question might be a terrorist.
Last month the artistContinue reading → 


Posted in Living, Police State, Politics, Revolution, World | Tagged Alex Schaefer, Banks, Chase, fire, painting | Leave a comment 















China confronts Indian navy vesselPublished September 1, 2011 

A Chinese warship confronted an Indian navy vessel shortly after it left a Vietnamese port in late July in the first such encounter between the two countries’ navies in the South China Sea.
The unidentified Chinese warship demanded that India’sContinue reading → 


Posted in Politics, World | Tagged china, India, navy | Leave a comment 















‘Unschooling’ Gaining Popularity, Allows Children Alternative Learning ToolsPublished September 1, 2011 

School’s never out for 14-year-old Zoe Bentley. Nor is it ever in.
The perky teen from Tucson, Ariz., explores what she likes, when she likes as deeply as she chooses every day of the year. As an “unschooler,” Zoe isContinue reading → 


Posted in Living, Politics | Tagged children, homeschooling, schools | Leave a comment 















In America The Rule Of Law Is VacatedPublished September 1, 2011 

With bank fraudsters, torturers, and war criminals running free, the US Department of Justice (sic) has nothing better to do than to harass the famous Tennessee guitar manufacturer, Gibson, arrest organic food producers in California and send 12 abusive FBIContinue reading → 


Posted in Police State, Politics, Revolution | Tagged freedom, Gibson, raid, rule of law, US | Leave a comment 















AT&T plays the jobs card on ObamaPublished September 1, 2011 

SAN FRANCISCO (MarketWatch) — Did AT&T Corp. really think that its 11th-hour offer to bring 5,000 wireless call-center jobs back to the U.S. if its $39 billion purchase of T-Mobile USA was approved would work?
via AT&T plays the jobsContinue reading → 


Posted in Politics, Tech, World | Tagged AT&T, jobs, obama | Leave a comment 















» Man Faces Life In Jail For Recording PolicePublished August 31, 2011 

Every other case involving people arrested for filming cops has been thrown out of court, but media promulgates hoax that recording police is illegal
via » Man Faces Life In Jail For Recording Police Alex Jones’ Infowars: There’s a warContinue reading → 


Posted in Living, Police State, Politics, Tech, Video | Tagged jail, police, recording | Leave a comment 















Pro-vaccine agenda in shambles after pivotal Washington meetingPublished August 31, 2011 

(NaturalNews) Efforts to save the sinking pro-vaccination ship are failing, especially after a recent US State Department Listening Meeting during which various non-government organizations (NGOs) presented sound scientific evidence against the continued use of mercury in vaccines. According to aContinue reading → 


Posted in Health, Living, Politics | Tagged vaccine, vaccines | Leave a comment 















Joel Salatin: How to Prepare for A Future Increasingly Defined By Localized Food & EnergyPublished August 31, 2011 

Joel Salatin: How to Prepare for A Future Increasingly Defined By Localized Food & Energy | ZeroHedge.



Posted in Green, Health, Living, Police State, Politics | Tagged energy, food, future | Leave a comment 















25 Signs That The Financial World Is About To Hit The Big Red Panic ButtonPublished August 31, 2011 

Most of the worst financial panics in history have happened in the fall.  Just recall what happened in 1929, 1987 and 2008.  Well, September 2011 is about to begin and there are all kinds of signs that the financial worldContinue reading → 


Posted in Politics, World | Tagged collapse, economy, market | Leave a comment 















Charges Dropped Against Mom Accused of Shooting At Police For Taking Her Daughter Maryanne GodboldoPublished August 31, 2011 

August 30, 2011
by Dr. Boyce Watkins
Charges were dropped against Maryanne Godboldo, a 57-year old Detroit woman who was charged with shooting at police when they came to take her daughter away.  The police were there to assist ChildContinue reading → 


Posted in Health, Living, Police State, Politics, Video | Tagged Maryanne Godboldo | Leave a comment 















Pro-vaccine agenda in shambles after pivotal Washington meetingPublished August 31, 2011 

Pro-vaccine agenda in shambles after pivotal Washington meeting.



Posted in Health | Leave a comment 















Business, labor join Obama to push highway fundingPublished August 31, 2011 

DON’T BE FOOLED, THIS IS OBVIOUSLY AGENDA 21 FURTHER BEING ROLLED OUT, MORE OF THE SAME OUT OF THE BANKER PUPPET PRESIDENT
President Obama will make a renewed pitch alongside business and labor advocates Wednesday morning for Congress to passContinue reading → 


Posted in Living, Police State, Politics, World | Tagged agenda 21, highway, highways plan, Jobs plan, obama | Leave a comment 















National Public Radio underwritten by Monsanto?Published August 30, 2011 

National Public Radio underwritten by Monsanto?.



Posted in Other, Politics | Leave a comment 















» A story missing from our media: Iceland’s on-going revolution Alex Jones’ Infowars: There’s a war on for your mind!Published August 30, 2011 

» A story missing from our media: Iceland’s on-going revolution Alex Jones’ Infowars: There’s a war on for your mind!.



Posted in Revolution | Leave a comment 















A ‘no-growth’ boom will follow 2012 global crashPublished August 30, 2011 

Ouch, this guy is revealing the plans of the globalists. Not any conspiracy theory plans, just what is reality, and likely to happen over the next 2 decades.
SAN LUIS OBISPO, Calif. (MarketWatch) — There is a global economic boomContinue reading → 


Posted in Health, Living, Politics, World | Tagged capitalism, collapse, economy, global crash, market | Leave a comment 















Don’t ditch those Treasurys yetPublished August 30, 2011 

Yet something seemed wrong in the forced bonhomie Bernanke tried to project with his Continental counterpart, Jean-Claude Trichet — and I’m not even talking about the mismatched shirt and sweater the tall Frenchman sported.
I couldn’t quite put my fingerContinue reading → 


Posted in Politics, World | Tagged bernanke, federal reserve, IMF, Lagarde | Leave a comment 















Kenneth Melson, acting ATF chief, steps downPublished August 30, 2011 

The man who led the controversial Fast and Furious anti-gun-trafficking operation will step down as the interim head of Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, the Justice Department announced Tuesday as it named a new acting director for theContinue reading → 


Posted in Police State, Politics | Tagged ATF, Fast and Furious, gun control | Leave a comment 















The Green Party urges US/NATO to withdraw from Libya and support African Union efforts to broker a resolutionPublished August 30, 2011 

WASHINGTON, DC — Green Party leaders urged an immediate US/NATO withdrawal from Libya after the advance of rebel forces into Tripoli, and called on President Obama to support a political solution to the crisis in Libya through diplomacy, with theContinue reading → 


Posted in Politics, World | Tagged Green Party, libya, NATO | Leave a comment 















83 Died in U.S.-Guatemala Syphilis Experiments: “We’re talking about intentional deception.”Published August 30, 2011 

It made headlines when historian Susan M. Reverby of Wellesley College discovered a decades-old program run from by the U.S. Public Health Service’s studies in Guatemala from 1946 to 1948. That’s because the researchers deliberately inoculated subjects with syphilis inContinue reading → 


Posted in Health, Living, Police State, Politics, World | Tagged experiments, Guatemala, Syphilis | Leave a comment 















Strong 6.8 quake hits near East TimorPublished August 30, 2011 

JAKARTA: A powerful 6.8-magnitude earthquake struck deep beneath the seabed near East Timor on Tuesday but no tsunami warning was issued, a local geophysics agency said.
The quake hit at 13:57 pm (0657 GMT) at a depth of 469 kilometreContinue reading → 


Posted in Living, World | Tagged earthquake, Indonesia, Timor | Leave a comment 















New major hurricane possible by weekendPublished August 30, 2011 

New major hurricane possible by weekend
Tropical Storm Katia forms in Caribbean; U.S. prospects unclear
via New major hurricane possible by weekend – Weather – msnbc.com.



Posted in Living | Tagged Caribbean, Hurricane Katia, tropical storm | Leave a comment 















Report: Israel sends 2 warships to Egyptian borderPublished August 30, 2011 

The Israeli military said Monday that it has sent two additional warships to the Red Sea border with Egypt following warnings that militants are planning another attack on southern Israel from Egyptian soil.
via Report: Israel sends 2 warships toContinue reading → 


Posted in Politics, World | Tagged Egypt, freedom, Gaza, Israel, Palestine | Leave a comment 















Court Upholds Citizens’ Right to Turn Cameras on Police OfficersPublished August 29, 2011 

Boston lawyer Simon Glik was arrested on October 1, 2007 when he used his cell phone to record officers making a drug arrest, and later sued the city and the officers for violating his rights. After the officers tried toContinue reading → 


Posted in Police State, Politics, Tech | Tagged camera, control, police | Leave a comment 















Latest Anonymous protest against BART a successPublished August 29, 2011 

PacificProgress.us
August 29th, 2011

Anonymous activists have shown up to the San Francisco Civic Center Station for a 3rd set of planned peaceful protests against BART Police brutality. [1] Activists gathered for another non-violent protest to continue to put pressure onContinue reading → 


Posted in Anonymous, Living, Police State, Politics, Revolution, Tech | Tagged Anonymous, BART, police, police brutality, protest | Leave a comment 















FCC Asked to Disallow Wireless Shutdowns on Public TransitPublished August 29, 2011 

BART turned off cell service at four underground stations on Aug. 11. BART officials said the temporary shutdown was due to information they had that mobile devices would be used to organize a rush-hour protest over the shooting deaths ofContinue reading → 


Posted in Anonymous, Police State, Politics, Revolution, Tech | Tagged Anonymous, BART, FCC | Leave a comment 















» DHS “Cyber Security” Propaganda for College StudentsPublished August 29, 2011 

Kurt Nimmo
Infowars.com
August 29, 2011
The Department of Homeland Security’s $100 billion mandate is to protect the United States from terrorists and other evil-doers. It has also decided it needs to respond to natural disasters and accidents despite theContinue reading → 


Posted in Police State, Politics, Tech | Tagged college, cybersecurity, DHS, propaganda | Leave a comment 















Experts split on how to decommission Fukushima nuclear plantPublished August 29, 2011 

“If there’s 10 sieverts per hour of radiation outside, then the levels must be much higher closer to the reactor core,” says Tadahiro Katsuta, an associate professor at Meiji University and an expert in reactor engineering and reactor policy whoContinue reading → 


Posted in Health, Living, Politics, World | Tagged Fukushima, japan, nuclear, radiation, TEPCO | Leave a comment 















The “Liberation” of Libya: NATO Special Forces and Al Qaeda Join HandsPublished August 29, 2011 


Extensive war crimes have been committed. NATO has blood on its hands. The heads of government and heads of state of NATO member countries are responsible for extensive war crimes

The “pro-democracy” rebels are led by Al Qaeda paramilitary brigadesContinue reading → 


Posted in Politics, World | Tagged libya, NATO, Special Forces | Leave a comment 















IMF slashes US GDP forecast, trims euro zone: ANSAPublished August 29, 2011 

ROME: The International Monetary Fund has slashed its growth forecasts for the United States and urges central banks in the US and the euro zone to be ready to ease policy, Italian news agency ANSA reported on Monday, citing anContinue reading → 


Posted in Politics, World | Tagged EU, GDP, IMF, US | Leave a comment 















Euro bail-out in doubt as ‘hysteria’ sweeps GermanyPublished August 29, 2011 

Mrs Merkel has cancelled a high-profile trip to Russia on September 7, the crucial day when the package goes to the Bundestag and the country’s constitutional court rules on the legality of the EU’s bail-out machinery.
If the court rulesContinue reading → 


Posted in Politics, World | Tagged collapse, Crash, economy, EU, germany, market, merkel | Leave a comment 















Market crash ‘could hit within weeks’, warn bankersPublished August 29, 2011 

Insurance on the debt of several major European banks has now hit historic levels, higher even than those recorded during financial crisis caused by the US financial group’s implosion nearly three years ago.
via Market crash ‘could hit within weeks’,Continue reading → 


Posted in Politics, World | Tagged collapse, depression, economy, market | Leave a comment 


















← Older posts

 













 Pacific Progress Main Feed










Labor’s Demise As A Countervailing Power: “Labor Day” should be renamed “Corporation Day” or “War Day” – by Dr. Paul Craig Roberts September 5, 2011Are Wikileaks and Anonymous Hackers All There Is Left We Can Rely on? September 5, 2011Full-Blown Civil War Erupts On Wall Street: As Reality Finally Hits The Financial Elite, They Start Turning On Each Other September 4, 2011Calm before the storm September 4, 2011World Bank’s Zoellick: “World Economy Is Entering A New Danger Zone” September 4, 2011The Dow Peaks Of 1937 And 2007 September 4, 2011Global economy in danger zone: Zoellick | Reuters September 4, 2011Senior IMF Economist Expects Hard Default For Greece. Soon. September 4, 2011» Vaccine Propaganda Continues Despite Evidence of Harm Alex Jones’ Infowars: There’s a war on for your mind! September 3, 2011Germany Wants Renminbi To Join The IMF Currency Basket September 3, 2011 

 


 






 Infowars.com Feed










Government Issues Dubious Terror Advisory as 9/11 Anniversary Nears September 5, 2011Hackers steal SSL certificates for CIA, MI6, Mossad September 5, 2011High-tech classrooms aren’t producing higher grades September 5, 2011Mayor of London Makes Bizarre 9/11 Comments September 5, 2011Is Rick Perry A Dead Zone Candidate? September 5, 2011European Stocks Fall Sharply as Debt Fears Hit Banks September 5, 2011Facebook to offer free online music to rival Apple’s iTunes September 5, 2011Tony Blair is godfather to Rupert Murdoch’s daughter September 5, 2011Arizona prisons charge visitors $25 to see inmates September 5, 2011Central Banks, BIS and Goldman Sachs Coercion September 5, 2011 

 


 

















 

 












 



 





Subscribe by E-mail!










 Click here to subscribe to Pacific Progress News updates by E-mail!


Click here to subscribe to ProgressCast video news!



 





Search










 

Search for:        


 
 






 





Blogroll












Activist Post
AirCrap.org
Al Jazeera English
AmpedStatus
Antiwar.com
Blacklisted News
Breaking All The Rules
Business Insider
BuzzFlash Progressive News
CommonDreams.org
CurrentTV
Cutting Through The Matrix
Dutchsinse's blog
Dutchsinse's channel
Educate Yourself
Global Incident Map
GlobalResearch.ca
GlobalResearchTV
Illuminati Conspiracy Archive
InfoWars
Land Destroyer Report
Lee Camp
LewRockwell
LifeHacker
MarketWatch
Natural News
NEW WORLD ORDER NEWS
Patriots Question 9/11
PrisonPlanet
RevolutionNews
RifleWarrior.com
RSOE Emergency and Disaster Information Service
Small Government Times
The Globalist Agenda
The Guardian – World
The Intel Hub
The Raw Story
The Sovereign Independent
The Watchers
TorrentFreak
Trends Research Institute
Truth Exposed Radio
Truth Is Treason
Washington's Blog
We Are Change
Webster Griffin Tarpley



 





ProgressCast Feed











 Subscribe in a reader


 





Archives










 
September 2011 (34)
August 2011 (222)
July 2011 (208)
June 2011 (174)
May 2011 (105)
April 2011 (14)
March 2011 (2)
February 2011 (21)
November 2010 (2)
October 2010 (10)
September 2010 (2)
August 2010 (13)
July 2010 (28)



 





tagcloud










9/11
Anonymous
Bilderberg
collapse
conspiracy
control
crisis
death
debt
depression
dollar
earthquake
economy
election
False flag
federal reserve
food
freedom
Fukushima
globalism
government
health
IMF
inflation
internet
japan
liberty
libya
market
NATO
new world order
nuclear
obama
police
police state
protest
radiation
revolution
Ron Paul
TEPCO
terrorism
truth
TSA
US
War


 

 















 NaturalNews.com FeedHow bad is the drought in Texas, really? September 4, 2011New green compliant 60-watt LED bulb to cost $15 September 4, 2011SerratioPeptidase is a potent anti-inflammatory enzyme September 4, 2011 

 




 CommonDreams NewsTwo Dead, Hundreds of Homes Burned in Texas Wildfires September 5, 2011Budgets Cut, Teachers Dig Deeper for Supplies September 5, 2011A Decade After the 9/11 Attacks, Americans Live in an Era of Endless War September 5, 2011Regulations, Taxes Aren't Killing Small Business, Owners Say September 4, 2011More Afghan Soldiers Deserting the Army, NATO Statistics Show September 4, 2011A Messy Peace in Libya September 4, 2011Report: Weapons Manufacturers 'Lost' More Than 16,000 Guns over Two Years September 4, 2011Labor Unions Adjust to New Reality Under Obama September 4, 2011Israeli Protests: 430,000 Take to Streets to Demand Social Justice September 4, 2011Turkey to Challenge Gaza Blockade at International Court of Justice September 4, 2011 

 




 The BRAD BlogNo Doubting Thomas at Los Angeles TimesWhy Matthew Vadum Hates DemocracyDOJ Has Questions for SC, Hints at Denial of Pre-Clearance for State's Photo ID Restrictions'Green News Report' - September 1, 2011As Howard Kurtz Said...Brad on KPFK: Interview with Ari Berman on 'The GOP War on Voting'Rolling Stone Details Latest Fronts (& Successes) in 'The GOP War on Voting'Guest Hosting 'Malloy Show' Tuesday!'Green News Report' - August 30, 2011Howard Kurtz' Hurricane of Haplessness 

 




 Al-Jazeera FeedRed Cross granted access to Syrian prison September 5, 2011Cambodia's 'Killing Fields' painter dies September 5, 2011Courtroom chaos as Mubarak trial resumes September 5, 2011Missing Germans found dead in Afghanistan September 5, 2011China acknowledges Libya arms talks September 5, 2011Pakistan captures 'senior al-Qaeda leader' September 5, 2011Famine spreads to sixth region of Somalia September 5, 2011European shares slip on US recession fears September 5, 2011Standoff continues over Gaddafi stronghold September 5, 2011Kurdish separatists 'attack football match' September 5, 2011 

 





Home | ProgressCast | SiteMapCopyright © 2011. All Rights Reserved. 

















Content Protected Using Blog Protector By: PcDrome.


