Boston blog Blog | Nature Publishing Group









nature.com blogs




Sign in




Snapshot
Account







Boston blog
a nature network blog 
		

			by 
			
				
				Tinker Ready
			
			




Home
Archive
About




Search this Blog

















Boston blog


NYTimes: Massachusetts company promotes trendy sports therapy













Harvest Technologies Corporation, a Plymouth company, gets a mention in a NY Times story on a new trend in sports medicine: platelet-rich plasma or P.R.P. The company supplies equipment for P.R.P. treatments. 
While there are no official statistics on P.R.P. treatment, all agree that it has exploded on the scene, propelled by testimonials from celebrity athletes. 
Part of its appeal was that it made sense. Blood contains platelets that secrete growth factors that, in turn, can help tissue heal. So if a patient's own platelets are injected into the injury site, they might speed recovery. And since it is the patient's own platelets, the treatment is unlikely to be harmful. 
The treatment, and others like it, are also unproven, the story notes. The piece ends with mention of a "popular treatment" that "leapt to the public and medical world's attention this year when Bartolo Colon, a pitcher for the New York Yankees, made an astonishing comeback from elbow injuries and a torn rotator cuff that had plagued him for years and had kept him from pitching for all of 2010. "
In May, Mr. Colon and his doctor, Joseph R. Purita, an orthopedic surgeon in Boca Raton, Fla., reported that Mr. Colon was treated with P.R.P. and "stem cells" -- his own fat and bone marrow cells, injected into his shoulder and elbow. Dr. Purita worked with the Harvest Technologies Corporation, a Massachusetts company that also supplies equipment for P.R.P. 
The opening scenes seem familiar to those who followed the saga of P.R.P. 
Once again, there is a rationale behind the treatment, said Rocky Tuan, director of the 
Center for Cellular and Molecular Engineering at the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center. 
The reasoning began with questions about why P.R.P. is not clearly effective. The problem may be that growth factors released from platelets need cells that can respond. But most tissues in joints and tendons have very few cells. 
"That's where stem cells come in," Dr. Tuan said. Fat and bone marrow contain stem cells that might grow into joint or tendon if they were placed in the right environment. And if a patient also gets an injection of P.R.P., a tendon or joint might actually heal. 
The key word, of course, is "might." 
For now, Dr. Tuan said, "no systematic study has been done." 
Improving patient outcomes by enhancing the body's normal
healing process using adult stem cells and growth factors."




                                         Posted by Tinker Ready on Sep  5, 2011

Permalink
                                         | 1 Comment
                                         
                                         | No TrackBacks







Getting Iggy in Cambridge: Ig Noble Awards on Sept. 29 













A visit to the Improbable Research website bring us news of memorials for two Iggy scientists, as well as a program for the upcoming Ig Nobel awards event. Details below. 
September 10, 2011, Saturday, 2:00 pm.
Memorial event for William Lipscomb, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA, USA -- This will be at Memorial Church, on the Harvard campus. All are welcome.

September 25, 2011, Sunday	
Memorial event for Jerry Lettvin, MIT, Cambridge, MA, USA -- MIT room 32-123(on the site of old building 20, where Jerry had his lab).A mix of Jerry stories and Jerry-ish technical talks. Further details to be announced.
September 29, 2011, 
Thursday evening	Ig Nobel Prize Ceremony, Sanders Theatre, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA -- The Twenty-first 1st Annual Ig Nobel Prize Ceremony.
October 1, 2011, Saturday
Ig Informal Lectures, MIT Building 26, room 100, Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA -- The new winners present brief public lectures. Free, but seating is limited. [Map and directions]




                                         Posted by Tinker Ready on Sep  2, 2011

Permalink
                                         | No Comments
                                         
                                         | No TrackBacks







New restaurants and street life show up in Kendall Square 













The Kendall Square section of Cambridge  used to be home to underused warehouses and MIT buildings with numbers instead of names.  The biotech companies moved in in the 1990s, but it's taken a good decade for a street life to emerge. Now, with a burst of new restaurants, the neighborhood is, as they say, a destination.(That gravel pit outside Genzyme will one day be a theater.) 
Last night, the bar at classy Abigail's was full, so was the patio across the street at Za. Here are a few scenes from an early evening in late summer. Note the arrival of a large Mormon church and a couple of old favorites: Au Bon Pain for the French roast coffee and Legal Seafood for the chowder. Looks LIke Rebecca's has a good lobster roll deal. 
And if you get down there around mid-day today, Thursday, you can hit the farmer's market and a free concert by up and coming bluegrass mandolin player Sierra Hull. 
 Kendall Square comes alive   View more presentations from Tinkerr  




                                         Posted by Tinker Ready on Sep  1, 2011

Permalink
                                         | No Comments
                                         
                                         | No TrackBacks







Avalanche of events arrives with fall's student













September brings students back to Boston and along with them seminars, lecture, conferences and other scientific events. We're squeezed our updated calendar below or you can link to it here. 





                                         Posted by Tinker Ready on Aug 31, 2011

Permalink
                                         | No Comments
                                         
                                         | No TrackBacks







NYTimes: New approach to gene sequencing is a game changer 













Gina Kolata of the New York Times reports that "New methods of quickly sequencing entire microbial genomes are revolutionizing the field."

The first bacterial genome was sequenced in 1995 -- a triumph at the time, requiring 13 months of work. Today researchers can sequence the DNA that constitutes a micro-organism's genome in a few days or even, with the latest equipment, a day. (Analyzing it takes a bit longer, though.) They can simultaneously get sequences of all the microbes on a tooth or in saliva or in a sample of sewage. And the cost has dropped to about $1,000 per genome, from more than $1 million. 

In the story Dr. Matthew K. Waldor of Harvard Medical School says "the new technology is changing all aspects of microbiology -- it's just transformative."
It's a process he used to explore the origin of the cholera epidemic following the 2010 earthquake in Haiti.  




                                         Posted by Tinker Ready on Aug 30, 2011

Permalink
                                         | 1 Comment
                                         
                                         | No TrackBacks







MIT science news review on Irene and climate change 













Every time there is a major weather event - or not - expect to see a lot of reporting on the link between bad weather and climate change. Charlie Petit at the MIT's Knight Science Journalism Tracker calls the coverage "a lot of blather" and asks Was Irene a global warming storm? (wrong question. Answer is yes but it's still meaningless)

Among the stories he cites, a column from US News  that uses Irene to report on a new report from conservative scientists who dispute the role of humans in climate change. 
Here's what Petite has to say about the column: 
USNews - Paul Bedard: Scientists Slam Link Between Hurricanes and Global Warming ; Sheesh. One of the scientists is Fred Singer. He's a fine fellow, did cracker jack work on weather satellites and on the potential for testing relativity with clocks on satellites even before there were satellites, but he is a godfather of climate change skepticism, ozone hole skepticism, tobacco and cancer skepticism...Then Bedard mentions the Heartland Institute. Double Sheesh.
The Heartland Institute report in question concludes that Global warming may be good for human health and warns against "powerful interest groups that knowingly or unknowingly exaggerate the human role in climate. Some of these groups have financial stakes in maintaining climate alarmism--they include investors in ―renewable energy‖ (solar and wind), producers of biofuels such as ethanol, financial houses and analysts, and of course environmental advocacy groups."




                                         Posted by Tinker Ready on Aug 30, 2011

Permalink
                                         | No Comments
                                         
                                         | No TrackBacks







The science of predicting a hurricane's path 













As Bay Staters stock up on bottled water and batteries, NNB offers some links to the science of hurricanes. 
The Museum of Science offers a site for kids called Weatherwise. If the MOS windows hold up, you can watch the storm come in on their weather cam. 
 
An MIT class called "Solving Complex Problems" tried to figure out how to protect New Orleans as part of a 2010 project.
They set up a web site that includes a page called "Predicting Hurricanes" with some very basic information on the science of tracking storms. 

Once a hurricane has formed, it can be tracked. Scientists can usually predict its path for 3-5 days in advance. A hurricane's possible trajectory is usually represented as a cone, which shrinks over time as the error in the prediction decreases. To predict the path of these storms, meteorologists can use many different models. The original best model was CLIPER (Climate and Persistence). It is designed as a statistical regression equation based on past data and current climatological data. This was the major forecasting model used up until the 1980's. Today it is used primarily for testing and comparing new models. NHC90 and BAM (Beta and Advection Model) are two models based on data gathered by planes. They use measurements taken multiple times in a day, and the models themselves are updated every couple of years. The National Hurricane Center relies heavily on two different international forecasting systems, the United Kingdom Meteorological Office's global model and the United States Navy Operational Global Atmospheric Predictions Systems (NOAA, 2004). There are many more models used. This list includes only several of the major, most common models used to forecast the movement of storm systems.
Researchers at Colorado State University offers these predictions
Information obtained through July 2011 indicates that the 2011 Atlantic hurricane season will be much more active than the average 1950-2000 season. We estimate that 2011 will have about 9 hurricanes (average is 5.9), 16 named storms (average is 9.6), 80 named storm days (average is 49.1), 35 hurricane days (average is 24.5), 5 major (Category 3-4-5) hurricanes (average is 2.3) and 10 major hurricane days (average is 5.0). The probability of U.S. major hurricane landfall and Caribbean major hurricane activity is estimated to be well above its long-period average. We expect Atlantic basin Net Tropical Cyclone (NTC) activity in 2011 to be approximately 175 percent of the long-term average season. We have maintained our seasonal forecast from early April and early June.
For this seasone, they predicted that  the chance of a hurrcane hitting massachusetss is 11% -- higher than the 7% average and the chance of a major hurricane at  3%, compare to a 2 percent average. 
More from The National Hurricane Center.




                                         Posted by Tinker Ready on Aug 26, 2011

Permalink
                                         | No Comments
                                         
                                         | No TrackBacks







1947 Newsreel: Boston woman 1st to scale Mt. McKinley 













...but she still had to do the laundry. 
The Museum of Science, Boston has posted a short film on the husband-and-wife team of Bradford and Barbara Washburn, museum patrons and co-founders. 

From Nat Geo:  Their June 6, 1947, climb of Alaska's ice-ribbed Mount McKinley made Barbara the first woman to summit North America's highest peak and set an early benchmark in the close bonds of an illustrious career of mountaineering, exploring, mapping, and museum administration.





                                         Posted by Tinker Ready on Aug 25, 2011

Permalink
                                         | No Comments
                                         
                                         | No TrackBacks







Seismogram of Virginia quake recorded at BC's Weston Observatory 













From BC's Weston Observatory.More from the USGS

Earthquake roundup:
Globe story: Quake sets the Northeast aquiver
In Boston, the quake caused downtown buildings, including the Prudential tower, to sway and sent a shiver of confusion and alarm through the city. Several buildings were evacuated and inspected for damage, and a surge of worried phone calls overwhelmed wireless networks.
For a region unaccustomed to quakes, the rumblings, while brief, left a tangible sense of unease that lingered long after any danger had passed.
More from the Globe: In region, small temblors common, larger ones rare
It was the East Coast's most powerful earthquake in 67 years. Because of the solidity of 
the earth's crust on the eastern seaboard - unlike California, where there are networks of active faults - earthquakes tend to be felt over longer distances here, according to Thomas Herring, a geophysics professor at MIT.
Geophysicists said the earthquake was unusually strong for the area, but not unprecedented. In 1897, an earthquake estimated at 5.9 magnitude shook Giles County, Va., according to the US Geological Survey. Eight years ago, a 4.5-magnitude earthquake was recorded in that state.
Seismogram of quake recorded on the Amesbury Middle School  seismograph:





                                         Posted by Tinker Ready on Aug 24, 2011

Permalink
                                         | No Comments
                                         
                                         | No TrackBacks







Harvard's science and cooking series back with history, chocolate and texture













Scroll down for September schedule or click here for details and complete scheudule.

Tuesday, September 6, 2011

Historical Context and Demos Illustrating the Relationship of Food and Science 
Speakers: Dave Arnold (Food Arts magazine's Contributing Editor for Equipment & Food Science), Harold McGee (author of On Food and Cooking: The Science and Lore of the Kitchen and columnist for The New York Times) and David Weitz (Mallinckrodt Professor of Physics and of Applied Physics at Harvard) 
Location: Science Center C

Monday, September 12, 2011
Sous-vide Cooking: the Future of Healthy Cooking?
Speaker: Joan Roca (El Celler de Can Roca)
 Location: Science Center C

Monday, September 19, 2011
 The Many Faces of Chocolate
 Speaker: Ramon Morató (Aula Chocovic)
 Location: Science Center C

Monday, September 26, 2011
 Texture in Pure State
 Speaker: Carles Tejedor (Via Veneto), Fina Puigdevall and Pere Planagumà (les Coles)
 Location: Science Center C




                                         Posted by Tinker Ready on Aug 23, 2011

Permalink
                                         | No Comments
                                         
                                         | No TrackBacks












Subscribe

Posts
Posts & comments





Blogger Profile




Nature Network Team

View profile





Tinker Ready

View profile




A fresh look at Boston science news and events. A blog by Tinker Ready, and formerly by Rob Pinsonneault and Corie Lok.




Recent Nature Network Posts

Harvard brings you new jargon: culturenomics
Plant Scientists Are Not Necessarily Horticulturalists
A Successful Final Dive Before Alvin's Transformation Begins



All nature network blogs
Nature Network



Academic links


MIT


Harvard 


Tufts


Northeastern


BU




Google Calendar


Scientific Events in Boston 




museums


Museum of Science, Boston 


MIT Museum


Harvard Museum of Natural History 








Recent Entries


NYTimes: Massachusetts company promotes trendy sports therapy
Getting Iggy in Cambridge: Ig Noble Awards on Sept. 29 
New restaurants and street life show up in Kendall Square 
Avalanche of events arrives with fall's student
NYTimes: New approach to gene sequencing is a game changer 




Recent Comments


fgfuy gyugf: = http://alibabiz.com === Air jordan (1-24) shoes $33 ~~~~ Nike
hu zhao: It is really an exciting thing. We, humans, can decode
Austin Seofirm: The New Bedford Whaling Museum -- along with the Mystic




Monthly Archives


September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
More












About Nature Network
Feedback
Community Guidelines
Privacy
Terms and Conditions
Legal Notice

© 2010 Nature Publishing Group, a division of Macmillan Publishers Limited. All Rights Reserved.




















