INDIA: Earthquake rocks Washington area. Why Virginia Quake Shook Entire Coast



























































INDIA



All articles and pictures here are about The great India's developments,strong relationship with Global communities.1INDIA-2020 and 1World





















You are welcome here! தங்களை இங்கு வரவேற்கிறோம்! आप यहाँस्वागत है!Вы здесьДобро пожаловать! Andadipersilakandi sini!Sie willkommen! Είστε ευπρόσδεκτοι εδώ! 欢迎你在这里！ Darle la bienvenida! Ձեզբարի գալուստայստեղ!Burada xoş gəlmisiniz! آپ کوخوش آمدید یہاں ہیں! Jy is welkom hier! اهلا وسهلابكمهنا! Vous souhaite la bienvenue! તમે અહીં તમારું સ્વાગત છે! আপনি এখানেস্বাগত!ನೀವು ಇಲ್ಲಿ ವೆಲ್ಕಮ್! మీరు ఇక్కడ స్వాగతం ఉన్నాయి! 현재 환영합니다! あなたがここに歓迎されています！













“NEW INTERNATIONAL Design SCHOOL- TOWNSHIP” Hello World -My friends. My open Invitation to all of  YOU!  I am planning to open a new Architecture, Design-philosophy, Art and Culture International school; those are interested to join as a FINANCIAL partner please write to me. From Reliable and Serious responses only please. Ar UK BHOOBALAN,FIIA,AIA. E-mail: archbhoo@yahoo.com











Live World!


Loading...

















































































Wednesday, August 24, 2011





Earthquake rocks Washington area. Why Virginia Quake Shook Entire Coast






Patrick Semansky - A worker with Baltimore Gas and Electric walks past a square where workers wait for word to re-enter their office buildings after an earthquake was felt in Baltimore on Tuesday, Aug. 23, 2011. Downtown office buildings were cleared and workers were waiting for clearance to re-enter. (AP Photo/Patrick Semansky) The quake that hit the East Coast on Tuesday afternoon was notable, but not unprecedented, for the eastern half of the country, geoscientists say.
UPDATES magnitude; Map locates the epicenter of an earthquake in Virginia

Additionally, the shaking was felt over such a large area — as far south as Atlanta and as far north as Ontario, according to eyewitness reports — largely because the eastern part of the North American continent is different than the West Coast, where quakes are more common. [Album: The Great San Francisco Earthquake]

Office workers gather on a sidewalk after their building was evacuated following an earthquake in New York on Tuesday, Aug. 23, 2011. The 5.9 magnitude earthquake centered northwest of Richmond, Va., shook the much of the east coast from Washington, D.C., to New York City and Rhode Island. (AP Photo/Mark Lennihan)

"The crust is different in the east than in the west," United States Geological Survey (USGS) earthquake geologist David Schwartz told LiveScience. "It's older and colder and denser, and as a result, seismic waves travel much farther in the east than in the west."

Additionally, said Andy Frassetto of the Incorporated Research Institutions for Seismology, the sediments along the east coast can make quakes feel stronger. 

"The sediments of the coastal plain along the eastern seaboard can trap waves as they propagate and produce a minor amplification of the shaking," Frassetto told LiveScience.

A much more extreme version of this effect occurred during theearthquake that hit Christchurch, New Zealand, this year, Frassetto said.

Faults that rupture east of the Rockies usually create quakes felt over more than 10 times the area than those west of the mountains, according to the USGS. A magnitude-5.5 quake in the Eastern U.S. can usually be felt as far as 300 miles (500 km) away.

Latest Shaking

According to the USGS, the 5.8-magnitude quake struck at 1:51 p.m. Eastern Time. The epicenter was 5 miles (8 kilometers) from Mineral, Va., and 84 miles (135 kilometers) away from Washington, D.C. Despite the distance, the Pentagon, the Capitol and other buildings were evacuated. [Read: Large Earthquake Could Strike New York City]

The quake was only about 3.7 miles (6 km) deep, according to the USGS. That's typical for the eastern U.S., Frassetto said. In the east, he said, quakes usually originate in the upper part of the crust.

In contrast, subduction zones such as the Pacific Ring of Fire, where one plate is being pushed under another, produce very deep quakes — sometimes 435 miles (700 km) down, Frassetto said. These super-deep quakes may not even be felt on the surface.

A federal court officer instructs court personnel during an evacuation of the Federal Court Building in New York, following an 5.9 magnitude earthquake that struck the East Coast of the United States, August 23, 2011. REUTERS/Brendan McDermid
---
Unusual earthquake: Strong tremor along East Coast -AP

Quakes in the east

Since Virginia lies in the middle of a continental plate, the state doesn't generally experience large-magnitude earthquakes like those that rattle Los Angeles, Alaska, Haiti, Japan and Chile (or any other areas on the edge of a tectonic plate), according to the USGS. 

Even so, since 1977, there have been about 200 earthquakes in Virginia. The last "big one" in Virginia occurred on May 31, 1897, in Pearisburg; it was a 5.8-magnitude temblor that, in addition to cracking walls and toppling chimneys, reportedly caused a judge in the courthouse there to adjourn a trial, jumping over a railing and fleeing outside, according to the USGS. 

Virginia is classified as a "moderate" seismic risk, with a 10-20 percent chance of experiencing a 4.75-magnitude earthquake (in quakes above 4.5, buildings begin to fall), the USGS said. Alaska and California take the first and second spots for the most earthquakes in the U.S., respectively, though California experiences more damaging earthquakes due to its greater population and extensive infrastructure.

There is a history of damaging quakes in the eastern United States, however. A destructive quake hit Charleston, S.C., in 1886, damaging thousands of buildings. Its magnitude was probably near 7.0 on the Richter scale. And in 1755, a quake with around a 6.0 magnitude struck off the coast of Massachusetts.

You can follow LiveScience senior writer Stephanie Pappas on Twitter @sipappas. Follow LiveScience for the latest in science news and discoveries on Twitter @livescience and on Facebook.

---

WASHINGTON (AP) — A 5.8 magnitude earthquake centered northwest of Richmond, Va., shook much of Washington, D.C., and was felt as far north as Rhode Island, New York City and Martha's Vineyard, Mass., where President Barack Obama is vacationing.

The U.S. Geological Survey said the earthquake was half a mile deep. Shaking was felt at the White House and all over the East Coast, as far south as Chapel Hill, N.C. Parts of the Pentagon, White House and Capitol were evacuated. There were no immediate reports of injuries.(See the 13 best tweets about the earthquake.) 


Office workers gather on a sidewalk in Washington on Aug. 23, 2011, moments after a 5.9-magnitude tremor shook the nation's capitol. The earthquake, which was centered northwest of Richmond, Va., was felt as far north as Rhode Island and New York City.J. Scott Applewhite / AP

It was centered near Louisa, Va., which is northwest of Richmond and south of Washington. 

Obama and many of the nation's leaders were out of town on August vacation when the quake struck at 1:51 p.m. EDT. The shaking was felt on the Martha's Vineyard golf course as Obama was just starting a round.

The East Coast gets earthquakes, but usually smaller ones and is less prepared than California or Alaska for shaking.

At Reagan National Airport outside Washington, ceiling tiles fell during a few seconds of shaking. Authorities announced it was an earthquake and all flights were put on hold.

At the Pentagon in northern Virginia, a low rumbling built and built to the point that the building was shaking. People ran into the corridors of the government's biggest building and as the shaking continued there were shouts of "Evacuate! Evacuate!"

In New York, the 26-story federal courthouse in lower Manhattan began swaying and hundreds of people were seen leaving the building. Court officers weren't letting people back in.

The quake came a day after an earthquake in Colorado toppled groceries off shelves and caused minor damage to homes in the southern part of the state and in northern New Mexico. No injuries were reported as aftershocks continued Tuesday.

In Charleston, W.Va., hundreds of workers left the state Capitol building and employees at other downtown office buildings were asked to leave temporarily.

"The whole building shook," said Jennifer Bundy, a spokeswoman for the state Supreme Court. "You could feel two different shakes. Everybody just kind of came out on their own."

In Ohio, where office buildings swayed in Columbus and Cincinnati and the press box at the Cleveland Indians' Progressive Field shook. At least one building near the Statehouse was evacuated in downtown Columbus.

In downtown Baltimore, the quake sent office workers into the streets, where lamp posts swayed slightly as they called family and friends to check in.

Social media site Twitter lit up with reports of the earthquake from people using the site up and down the U.S. eastern seaboard.

"People pouring out of buildings and onto the sidewalks and Into Farragut Park in downtown DC...," tweeted Republican strategist Kevin Madden.

"did you feel earthquake in ny? It started in richmond va!" tweeted Arianna Huffington, president and editor-in-chief of the Huffington Post Media Group.

Missouri Sen. Claire McCaskill tweeted that her staff in Washington was in an "emergency location. Hope everyone is ok."

John Gurlach, air traffic controller at the Morgantown Municipal Airport was in a 40-foot-tall tower when the earth trembled.

"There were two of us looking at each other saying, 'What's that?'" he said, even as a commuter plane was landing. "It was noticeably shaking. It felt like a B-52 unloading."

Immediately, the phone rang from the nearest airport in Clarksburg, and a computer began spitting out green strips of paper — alerts from other airports in New York and Washington issuing ground stops "due to earthquake." times US--COVERING GROUND: The August 23 earthquake, which had an epicenter in central Virginia, was felt all the way up in New York City, where Scientific American's offices were temporarily evacuated.Image: U.S. Geological Survey.


NEW YORK CITY—A magnitude 5.8earthquake that shook parts of the mid-Atlantic U.S. and New England Tuesday afternoon sent workers and residents streaming outdoors. In Lower Manhattan, surrounding the Scientific American office, vehicle traffic quickly came to a standstill—with New York Police Department officers ordering drivers to back their vehicles out of the Holland Tunnel. People streamed out onto the sidewalks and into neighborhood cafes as buildings were evacuated as a precautionary measure.

Officials in Washington, D.C., fewer than 160 kilometers from the quake's epicenter near Mineral, Va., closed all national monuments. And many office buildings in the nation's capital remained closed to business as of Tuesday afternoon. 

Most U.S. quakes occur in Alaska and California, but the East Coast is no stranger to temblors, with fault lines running throughout the area. The U.S. Geological Survey, however, had rated the probability of a quake larger than magnitude 5.7 occurring in the Richmond, Va., area in the next 100 years as less than 20 percent. 

The Virginia quake followed a rare magnitude 5.3 rattler in southern Colorado. 

POST QUAKE CALM: Workers gathered on a side street after being evacuated from a 17-story office building on Varick Street in Manhattan. Katherine Harmon.
Here are images from the area near our office, adjacent to an entrance to the Holland Tunnel in Lower Manhattan, taken within 10 minutes of the Virginia quake. 




Posted by
archbhoo


at
1:30 PM

















Email This

BlogThis!

Share to Twitter

Share to Facebook

Share to Google Buzz






Labels:
Earthquake,
Jolt,
New York,
Tremort,
USA






Reactions: 











0
comments:
        








Post a Comment

























Newer Post


Older Post

Home




Subscribe to:
Post Comments (Atom)










Stay with me!

Follow @archbhoo












Swim like these fishes in the galaxy

















About Me





archbhoo


New York-Chennai(-Madras)-Kuala Lumpur, Tamil Nadu, India
Architect,IIA,AIA,Lecturer,DESIGNER,Builder,Entrepreneur.360 d 
Philanthropist,healthy Patriotic MODERN-INDIAN POLITICIAN,Chennai.России Russia-thesis"The WORLD RELIGIONS AND  PEACE".NY(RA),GOPIO.Trying to create a world class new city,for 5m pop-"NEW CHENNAI" in southern India.1INDIA-2020!
http://twitter.com/archbhoo

View my complete profile











Architects Meet
















Twitter















Subscribe archbhoo







Posts
















                Atom
              










Posts












Comments
















                Atom
              










Comments



















Popular Posts









Our colorful Rajasthan,India.
     Rājasthān ( Rajasthani : राजस्थाण, the land of Rajasthanis , ("the land of kings" or "the land of colours"), is the largest  state  of ...





15 Sexy Yoga Poses. See now and be healthy.
Hot girls and yoga: together at last  Yoga-Health யோகா, உடல்நலம் योग स्वास्थ्य Йога-здоровье Yoga-Santé Yoga-Salud Յոգա - Առողջապահություն 瑜...










Dr. A.P.J. Abdul Kalam’s eyes on India-2020.
  Me and Kalam:  I was the last visitor to him at Anna University office,Chennai on that fine Friday evening, in 2002.I had hand overred my ...










Tamil Nadu and Kerala, Water flows from vertical to flat land to get food!
Water needs land, land needs water to grow plants to get food for both people those living in high,inclined and flat lands.  By nature beyon...










ஸ்ரீ பத்மநாபசுவாமி-मंदिर-The World richest country is The Great INDIA-ever-Temples GOLD,Diamond..Sri Padmanabhaswamy temple-US$30++ billion.
Thiruvanathapuram sri padmanabhaswamy temple  ஸ்ரீ பத்மநாபசுவாமி கோவில் Cellars, 150 க்கும் மேற்பட்ட ஆண்டுகளாக திறக்கப்படவில்லை.  मंदिर के भ...





Atmosphere in Kolkota,India may build structure that will outshine Taj Mahal-WAF Architecture.
 India may build structure that will outshine Taj Mahal!!!     LONDON: If architects have their way, India may soon build a new spectacular ...










World Population-7 billion- Day observed Monday,July 11.for better world.India's‘save girl child’ campaign.दुनिया की आबादी दिन-உலக மக்கள் தொகை நாள்-Всемирный день народонаселения.wêreld se bevolking dag
  A Million for a Billion - tell world leaders that access to contraceptives and reproductive health care is an essential right     "This ye...










India,TN,Ooty,Coonoor.deers crossing and fresh vegetable












A Visualization of United States Debt-Debt Clock
  (essentially  U.S. debt ). These countries  flags  appear in order of scale,             $100 - Most counterfeited money denomination in t...










River of Life project  Kuala Lumpur plans
River   of   Life   projek   Kuala Lumpur   生命 河 项目 吉隆坡  நகர   திட்டம் கோலாலம்பூர்   01 July 2011 BDP and Aecom are among five shortlisted p...















Recent Posts
















RSS feed for archbhoo-india.blogspot.com/ " http://feeds.feedburner.com/blogspot/rPran"


Loading...












My Space













Convert the World > Mind!


Length ConversionFrom:To:Result:Length Conversion






















World time











Teachers' Day-Thanks














Spread






















Stadiums


Loading...












Teachers' day


Loading...












Come again!
















Teachers Students


Loading...












My twitpic posters!













Golden words

Get the Golden Words - Vivekananda Quote of the day widget and many other great free widgets at Widgetbox! Not seeing a widget? (More info)











World architecture


Loading...












Water


Loading...












Festivals-Malaysia


Loading...












Rio de janeiro, Brazil


Loading...












China


Loading...












Codes


Loading...













Internet PolyglotGet the Random Multilanguage Word Of The Day widget and many other great free widgets at Widgetbox! Not seeing a widget? (More info)











archbhoo's Flickr Photostream
















Very essential links!


Blood Bank IND1
Blood Bank IND2
Blood Bank IND3
Blood Bank IND4
Earthquake 1
Earthquake 2
Equake/Tremor India GOI
Go Organic
India Panchayat-Village Council
India parliament
India-Maps
India-New city NEW CHENNAI
Indian Farmers
Online Hospital!
Yoga world












Follow by Email






























You can Follow






















SocialVibe
















Search This Blog


Loading...






































World's Beautiful roads.


















Ballet Bharatam Yoga Guru! Red Indians, Chinese













Add This























we all live on children's earnings! You?













Thanks

Thanks for visiting my blog, please visit tomorrow!











MarketWatch.com - Top Stories

















Published>Links li

http://paper.li/tag/comradehttp://paper.li/Si_Jose/1309463304http://paper.li/Pyromaniacbymp/1309919851http://paper.li/stenlymandagi/1307107107http://paper.li/omckelligan/1306802104http://paper.li/GoodBlogPosts1/1309659385  Food











Home


Home
Malaysian Building Standards-Codes
INTERNATIONAL Design SCHOOL












Affinity















wibiya widget

Web Toolbar by Wibiya














Video Bar


Loading...












Beach


Loading...












Blog Archive






▼ 

2011
(170)





          ► 
        


09/04 - 09/11
(6)

My TEACHER my Hero-My SCHOOL my Temple!
शिक्षकों दिन день учителя 教师节 World Teachers' day-...
Rio de janeiro, Brazil
Singapore imposes new standards for air-con, refri...
Computer History Museum, California, USA - Archite...
RIO 2016 Olympic stadium competition Winner AECOM!...








          ► 
        


08/28 - 09/04
(8)

India will have 403,000 millionaires by 2015
Malaysia-Singapore,1961 water agreement with Johor...
Hindu and Muslim Festivals
Happy Hari Raya Aidlfitri
Atmosphere in Kolkota,India may build structure th...
5 Places Never to Use Your Debit Card
Yahoo! News: Your Breaking News Photos
Hari Raya-Malay-Chinese-Indians Festivals week.






▼ 

08/21 - 08/28
(21)

The real Picture NASA - Hurricane Season 2011: Hur...
Must see-Top 15 Most Beautiful Roads in the World!...
Fighter jets line up with civil baby-copters
Parrots Outlive Us, -sogar papageien überleben uns...
Soviet legacy cast in stone-Museum of Totalitarian...
State-by-state glance on how Hurricane Irene is pr...
6.8-magnitude earthquake hits northern Peru, Brazi...
The Food Daily
Corruption in food.One of the world’s ‘most feared...
Hurricane-USA, Evacuations begin on tiny NC island...
Earthquake rocks Washington area. Why Virginia Qua...
India reveals plans to build seven new ports
A new mosque  in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. FXFOWLE
Canadian Ricken Patel, Avaaz, Jan Lokpal and peopl...
US VP Biden Reassures China on US Debt
People celebrate the capture in Tripoli, Libya.
North Korea's Elusive Kim Jong Il in Russia!
In & outside India, TOI most searched on net - The...
Bigger New stadium for QPR-football, Tony Fernande...
Montecito Residence Wins Architecture Award Innova...
Makkah's Grand Mosque set for major expansion








          ► 
        


08/14 - 08/21
(17)

Coup of '91 - tank tracks to democracy
Kim Jong Il’s train crosses Russian border for fir...
World's 10 Best Beachfront Hotels
Communist part of India supports Anna Hazare,,,,
Chennai-Madras,India, all students joined the city...
Royal sponsorship courted for Siberian eco-city,Sa...
Asian markets?
Through blood to democracy: Failed Soviet coup tha...
Malaysia's Air Asia, an Indian origin Goan Tony Fe...
Beautiful Rivers!
Children need plenty of fluids
'God particle'
Are you planning to settle in America? or moving!,...
1.21 billion people celebrating Indian 65th  Indep...
15 Sexy Yoga Poses. See now and be healthy.








          ► 
        


08/07 - 08/14
(18)







          ► 
        


07/31 - 08/07
(19)







          ► 
        


07/24 - 07/31
(16)







          ► 
        


07/17 - 07/24
(11)







          ► 
        


07/10 - 07/17
(8)







          ► 
        


07/03 - 07/10
(5)







          ► 
        


06/26 - 07/03
(1)







          ► 
        


06/19 - 06/26
(5)







          ► 
        


06/12 - 06/19
(7)







          ► 
        


06/05 - 06/12
(8)







          ► 
        


05/29 - 06/05
(15)







          ► 
        


05/22 - 05/29
(3)







          ► 
        


05/08 - 05/15
(2)
























If you feel and in need of this articles and pictures you can use for all good developmental works. Awesome Inc. template. Template images by Ollustrator. Powered by Blogger.



































