 CRISISBOOM









CRISISBOOM
The more you know, the better off you will be…







HomeJesus is Coming
The Basics of Salvation
About: Crisisboom
Comet Elenin
 



















BRICS could block West’s neocolonial moves

September 5, 2011
crisisboom Leave a comment



rt.com

Russia strongly opposes the Western approach to the situation in Syria and its stance has largely been echoed by its partners within the BRICS. Some experts believe that BRICS is the only group that can stand against the West’s hegemonic ambitions.
­“If the BRICS countries have anything to do with it, the Libyan scenario will not be put into practice in Syria,” Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said on Sunday after a meeting with his Brazilian counterpart, Antonio Patriota.
Dr Sreeram Chaulia, a Read more…
Rate this:

 


Categories: BRIC
Tags: brazil, BRICS, China, India, Libya, Russia, south africa, United States



9/4/2011 PROOF that the 7.0 magnitude earthquake solar flare 9/2/2011

September 5, 2011
crisisboom Leave a comment




 Read more…
Rate this:

 


Categories: Earthquake, solar flare
Tags: earthquakes, solar flare, sun



Tonga, Panama earthquakes reported

September 5, 2011
crisisboom Leave a comment



straitstimes      trust.org



PANAMA CITY, Sept 5 (Reuters) – A 5.9 magnitude earthquake struck western Panama near the border of Costa Rica on Monday, about 131 miles (211 km) south of David, Panama, at a depth of 6.2 miles (10 km), the U.S. Geological Survey reported.
The quake was not widely felt in the capital of Panama City and there was no immediate report of damage.
A scientist at the Pacific Tsunami Warning Center in Hawaii said the quake was not strong enough to cause a tsunami. (Reporting by Elida Moreno; editing by Mohammad Zargham) Read more…
Rate this:

 


Categories: Earthquake
Tags: earthquakes, Panama, ring of fire, Samoa, Tonga



Near-Earth Threats, NASA and Elenin – a Civilized Analysis

September 5, 2011
crisisboom Leave a comment



truthistreason
Recently, there has been quite a bit of talk about a comet or celestial body named Elenin (or C/2010x) that has entered our solar system and will be making a close pass of the Earth soon.  At first, I assumed it was simply the talk of fanciful amateur astronomers and that, at most, it might offer an interesting night-sight for Earth’s inhabitants, much like Haley’s Comet and many others.
But as I continued hearing more and more about this “Elenin object,” I started to realize this was no mere comet.  And perhaps, just maybe, it could have something to do with the famed Planet-X first reported about back in 1983 by the Washington Post.  Unfortunately, it seemed as though most of what I could find was wild speculation and fanatical rantings about the end of the world.  I had discovered only a handful of articles that  Read more…
Rate this:

 


Categories: astronomy
Tags: astronomy, comet elenin, NASA, Nibiru, Planet-X



Huge ‘New Zealand swell’ hitting California

September 5, 2011
crisisboom Leave a comment



stuff.co.nz

AP

NEW ZEALAND SWELL: A beach goer takes photos of surfers and body boarders as a large swell hits California beaches.


Massive waves slamming into California’s coast – killing at least one person and causing millions of dollars in damage – are being labelled the “New Zealand surf” because of where they are coming from.
In a rare event, a big weather system between New Zealand and Antarctica has generated a heavy Pacific wide swell, bringing the waves to California.
Sean Collins, chief forecaster and president of Surfline, told news website Patch.com he warned Californian authorities over the swell.
“Extra caution is urged to keep the public aware and safe from these large waves and associated rip currents.”
He said it was one of the biggest swells to hit with some waves coming ashore at six to seven metres.
Collins said southern hemisphere storms routinely produced waves in California, but this latest one was in the top 10 percent of known waves.
The US National Weather Service has warned beachgoers were  Read more…
Rate this:

 


Categories: California
Tags: california, New Zealand, New Zealand surf, Pacific Ocean



Texas: From droughts to extreme heat to blazing fires

September 5, 2011
crisisboom Leave a comment



Winds fuel flare-ups in Palo Pinto County, across state
star-telegram.com

Strong north winds fueled wildfire flare-ups around Possum Kingdom Lake on Sunday and firefighters managed to contain most of them, but the rest of Texas wasn’t as lucky as thousands of acres and hundreds of homes burned in another day of the worst wildfire season in the state’s history.
A wildfire estimated to be 16 miles long near the Austin suburb of Bastrop charred about 14,000 acres Sunday, destroying or damaging an estimated 300 homes.
“It’s catastrophic,” Mark Stanford, fire chief of the Texas Forest Service, said Sunday. “It’s a major natural disaster.”
More than 40 new wildfires were reported to the Texas Forest Service on Sunday as strong winds, low humidity and very dry vegetation left firefighters scrambling to extinguish blazes throughout the state.
“We’re very stretched right now,” Tom Berglund of the Texas Forest Service said Sunday.
As of Sunday afternoon, firefighters Read more…
Rate this:

 


Categories: Fires, Texas
Tags: Austin, Bastrop, Palo Pinto, Possum Kingdom, Texas, wildfires



New green compliant 60-watt LED bulb to cost $15

September 5, 2011
crisisboom Leave a comment



naturalnews
When the US federal government begins to unlawfully rip away Americans’ freedom to purchase the light bulbs of their choice beginning on January 1, 2012, the only available choices will be poisonous compact fluorescent (CFL) bulbs, which are loaded with toxic mercury, or expensive light-emitting diode (LED) bulbs, which a recent CNET article explains will cost roughly $15 a piece for the 60-watt variety — and that is on the inexpensive end of the spectrum.
According to the report, Lighting Science Group and Dixon Technologies India have developed an omnidirectional LED bulb that emits light at the equivalent brightness of a 60 watt incandescent, and that will be priced just below $15. Since 60-watt equivalent LEDs have typically been priced at Read more…
Rate this:

 


Categories: Coming Events
Tags: fluorescent light bulb, incandescent light bulb, LED bulb



Libyan rebels round up black Africans

September 5, 2011
crisisboom Leave a comment



yahoo


Men suspected of being mercenaries for Moammar Gadhafi, are held in a district sports center next to the medina, set up as provisory jail in Tripoli, Libya, Tuesday, Aug. 30, 2011. Libyan rebels are demanding that Algeria return Moammar Gadhafi's wife and three of his children for trial after they fled, raising tensions between the neighboring countries. Algeria's decision to host members of the Gadhafi clan is an "aggressive act against the Libyan people's wish," said Mahmoud Shammam, information minister in the rebels' interim government.(AP Photo/Francois Mori)
TRIPOLI, Libya (AP) — Rebel forces and armed civilians are rounding up thousands of black Libyans and migrants from sub-Sahara Africa, accusing them of fighting for ousted strongman Moammar Gadhafi and holding them in makeshift jails across the capital.
Virtually all of the detainees say they are innocent migrant workers, and in most cases there is no evidence that they are lying. But that is not stopping the rebels from placing the men in facilities like the Gate of the Sea sports club, where about 200 detainees — all black — clustered on a soccer field this week, bunching against a high wall to avoid the scorching sun.
Handling the prisoners is one of the first major tests for the rebel leaders, who are scrambling to set up a government that they Read more…


Rate this:

 


Categories: Libya
Tags: genocide, Libya, racism



Why This Gold Boom Will Be So Much Bigger Than The Last One

September 4, 2011
crisisboom Leave a comment




caseyresearch.com
As I mentioned in The Wrap last night, the gold market was comatose until shortly before the London open…and the rest, as they say, is history.
There was another spike up shortly after London opened…and from 9:00 a.m. in London, until the Comex open at 8:20 a.m. Eastern time, the gold price tacked on an additional ten bucks.
As soon as Comex trading began…and the jobs numbers were made public at 8:30 a.m…the gold price added another twenty bucks…and by 9:00 a.m. Eastern time, gold was up about $55 from Thursday’s close.  The price slid a hair from that point until just a few minutes before the Comex trading session closed at 1:30 p.m…but tacked on over ten dollars in the electronic trading session that followed, closing the day virtually on its high…up $58.80 spot.  Volume was surprisingly light.

The Read more…
Rate this:

 


Categories: GOLD
Tags: gold, precious metals, silver



Russia Tests Aging Missile with New Warhead

September 4, 2011
crisisboom 1 comment



defensenews
MOSCOW – Russia on Saturday successfully tested its Topol strategic missile with a new warhead designed to breach missile shields, Russian news agencies reported, citing the defense ministry.
“The experimental warhead of the missile hit the designated target with high precision at the testing site on Kamchatka peninsula,” a spokesman for the strategic rocket forces told the Interfax news agency.
The Topol intercontinental missile used has been operational for 23 years and was being tested to check its durability in extended use, the spokesman said. The missile was fired from the Plesetsk cosmodrome in the northwestern Arkhangelsk region to its target area around 3,730 miles to the east.
Rate this:

 


Categories: Russia
Tags: nuclear weapon, Russia, Topol intercontinental missile




Older Entries












RSS feed

Google
Youdao
Xian Guo
Zhua Xia
My Yahoo!
newsgator
Bloglines
iNezha



Twitter




RSS  
 
TagsAfrica
astronomy
Australia
China
commodities
Debt
Dollar
earth
earthquake
earthquakes
economy
Egypt
Europe
Federal Reserve
Floods
food
Food Crisis
food shortage
gold
government
India
inflation
Internet
Iran
Israel
Japan
Libya
middle east
military
NASA
nuclear weapons
Oil
Pakistan
precious metals
protests
Russia
Saudi Arabia
silver
sun
technology
Tsunami
Tunisia
unemployment
United States
US DollarArchives  Select Month  September 2011 
 August 2011 
 July 2011 
 June 2011 
 May 2011 
 April 2011 
 March 2011 
 February 2011 
 January 2011 
 December 2010 

Twitter Updates

 
September 2011


S
M
T
W
T
F
S




« Aug
 
 




 123


45678910


11121314151617


18192021222324


252627282930
 


Translate Translate this blog into different languages...


العربية


Български

中文（简体）

中文（繁體）

Hrvatski

Česky

Dansk

Nederlands

Suomi

Français

Deutsch

Ελληνική


हिन्दी


Italiano


日本語

한국어

Norsk

Polski

Português

Română


Русский


Español

Svenska

Search for:



  Recent Posts 
BRICS could block West’s neocolonial moves
9/4/2011 PROOF that the 7.0 magnitude earthquake solar flare 9/2/2011
Tonga, Panama earthquakes reported
Near-Earth Threats, NASA and Elenin – a Civilized Analysis
Huge ‘New Zealand swell’ hitting California
Texas: From droughts to extreme heat to blazing fires

Subscribe Today!

Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 66 other followers








Archives 
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010

  Spam Blocked 10,182 spam comments blocked byAkismet
 Category Cloudastronomy Big Brother Biometrics China Coming Events disease and pestilence Earth Earth changes Earthquake Economy Egypt Food Crisis GOLD GOVERNMENT Iran Japan Libya military Oil Protests Russia Silver Strange Events Sun Technology Uncategorized United States volcano Weather world   Top Posts & Pages Near-Earth Threats, NASA and Elenin – a Civilized AnalysisNASA Elenin 2011 Comet - Planetary Alignments with Comet Elenin Causing Big EarthquakesWikileaks: GMO conspiracy reaches highest levels of US GovernmentNASA's buzz about comet EleninWikileaks Discloses The Reason(s) Behind China's Shadow Gold Buying SpreeAll the volcano webcams of the world9/4/2011 PROOF that the 7.0 magnitude earthquake solar flare 9/2/2011 Comet EleninWhy This Gold Boom Will Be So Much Bigger Than The Last OneNuclear Reactor/ Weapon sites across the US  Authors 

  crisisboom


Links

Genesis Communications Network
Infowars
RFID (Radio Frequency IDentification) Privacy Issues and News
Startpage search engine
The Elevation Group
The truth on whats happening in the next 18 months


 Blog Stats 
310,809 hits

 







Top
WordPress

		Copyright © 2010-2011 CRISISBOOM	

Blog at WordPress.com. Theme: INove by NeoEase. 	





















