5.8 earthquake in Virginia felt in Washington, New York City, North Carolina Aug 23, 2011 - J-H Post



J-H Post
We deliver news in the easiest way of our choice






Home
About








Currently viewing and reading



5.8 earthquake in Virginia felt in Washington, New York City, North Carolina Aug 23, 2011
Posted by NN in August 24th 2011  

Don't forget to leave your ratings
 (No Ratings Yet)
 Loading ...















WASHINGTON - A 5.9 magnitude earthquake centered northwest of Richmond, Va., shook much of Washington, DC, and was felt as far north as Rhode Island, New York City and Martha’s Vineyard, Mass., where President Barack Obama is vacationing. The US Geological Survey said the earthquake was half a mile deep. Shaking was felt at the White House and all over the East Coast, as far south as Chapel Hill, NC Parts of the Pentagon, White House and Capitol were evacuated. There were no immediate reports of injuries. The Pentagon was later deemed safe for reoccupation. The quake was centered near Louisa, Va., in Louisa County, which is northwest of Richmond and south of Washington. Obama and many of the nation’s leaders were out of town on August vacation when the quake struck at 1:51 pm EDT. The shaking was felt on the Martha’s Vineyard golf course as Obama was just starting a round. The East Coast gets earthquakes, but usually smaller ones and is less prepared than California or Alaska for shaking. At Reagan National Airport outside Washington, ceiling tiles fell during a few seconds of shaking. Authorities announced it was an earthquake and all flights were put on hold.







under: Video
Tags: 5.8, 5.9, Across, Annandale, coast, DC, Detected, earthquake, east, Felt, hits, in, near, news, region, rocks, story, virginia, waechtermovie, waechtervideo, Washington, world, wrc

Digg it
Add to del.icio.us
Stumble it
add to technorati




Related Post


Meet the Man Behind Nathan Drake
(September 6th, 2011)


Beyonce Is Pregnant 2011 Announced at VMA’s FULL STORY!!!
(September 6th, 2011)


Minecraft Survival - Why So Cold?
(September 6th, 2011)


Party Rock Anthem-Kia Soul Hamster Commercial [HD]: Party Rock Anthem-LMFAO- MTV VMA’s
(September 6th, 2011)


Making of "SHE WILL" Lil Wayne ft Drake off Carter IV dir:DJ Scoob Doo
(September 5th, 2011)




No Comment Received
Leave A Reply

Username (*require)

Email Address (*require)

website

Comments:

 
Please Note: Comments maybe under moderation after you submit your comments so there is no need to resubmit your comment again



« KIDS REACT TO SMOSH
OK Go and The Muppets - Muppet Show Theme Song »




Search

 

 Recent Posts 
Libyan Fighters Surround Gadhafi Stronghold
Meet the Man Behind Nathan Drake
Beyonce Is Pregnant 2011 Announced at VMA’s FULL STORY!!!
Minecraft Survival - Why So Cold?
Party Rock Anthem-Kia Soul Hamster Commercial [HD]: Party Rock Anthem-LMFAO- MTV VMA’s

Recent CommentsBettie Nielsen on Assistant State Attorneys Linda Drane Burdick,foreground and …Michael on Assistant State Attorneys Linda Drane Burdick,foreground and …m thorsen on Assistant State Attorneys Linda Drane Burdick,foreground and …NadePaulKuciGravMcKi on The Prodigy - BreatheNadePaulKuciGravMcKi on Iran ships approach Suez, Israel takes "grave view" (Reuters)

Subscribes

























Categories 
business (2)

Comedy (337)

Entertainment (31)

Health (284)

Movie (388)

People (6)

science (1)

sports (1)

Technology (49)

Top News (2530)

topstories (1)

travel (2)

Uncategorized (11)

us (5)

Video (916)

world (6)


Counter
592757 Visitors

Tags


britain
british
business
california
china
city
Comedy
country
editing
Entertainment
family
film
follow-yahoo
Funny
government
Health
healthnews
hollywood
house
life
media
mexico
Movie
music
north
obama
office
People
photo
president
review
Science
table-border
the
time
trailer
united-states
university
Video
White
wife
world
written
yahoo
york


Spam Blocked 14,006 spam comments blocked byAkismet


















Plugin by wpburn.com wordpress themes
 







©2006-2011 J-H Post







