Virginia earthquake 2011: Aftershocks felt in Washington DC and New York - Earthquakes - Zimbio



Zimbio|
StyleBistro


Register|
Login


Today:
Worst Airline Passengers,
Kim K. Wedding Details,
Hottest Heirs & Heiresses














HOME
PICTURES
VIDEOS
LOOKBOOKS
PLACES
DATING
GAMES
GEEK
MORE    

















Earthquakes


Learn about earthquakes and share news about recent quakes. What causes earthquakes/ can they be predicted? When will the next big quake hit and where?


Front Page
Articles
Pictures
Videos
more    



Polls
Notes
Links
History





Write an Article
RSS




Virginia earthquake 2011: Aftershocks felt in Washington DC and New York






Report
Email







Written by 
idareyou
on 2011-08-24T05:33:57

From:  dailymail.co.uk





Huge East Coast earthquake devastates historic buildings as America wakes up to $100million hangoverHuge 5.8 quake felt across the East Coast, from Toronto to South CarolinaDamage reported in Virginia, while buildings evacuated for fear of collapse in New York and WashingtonThe White House and the Pentagon among buildings evacuatedWashington Monument to be closed indefinitely after cracks foundNYPD staff had worries earthquake was another terrorist attack in the cityFears of Fukushima-like nuclear disaster because old nuclear plant is just 10 miles from epicentreInjuries reported but no deaths


 
By 
Thomas Durante, Paul Bentley and John Stevens
Last updated at 1:20 PM on 24th August 2011









Add to My Stories




Share




The earthquake which yesterday ripped through the 
East Coast of America has devastated historic buildings, causing a huge $100million in damage.Terrifying tremors were felt 
throughout the north east causing buildings from Washington D.C. through New York City to Toronto, Canada, to be evacuated yesterday for fear of collapse. The 5.8 magnitude earthquake, which originated
in Virginia, brought panic to the Pentagon and the White House, and sparked fears that the iconic Washington Monument would fall.The huge structure, which was said to have tilted because of the shudder, cracked because of the earthquake and has since been closed indefinitely to the public for immediate repairs.Scroll down for video 
Dangerous: One of the spires , left, of the National Cathedral in Washington is seen missing following the earthquake 







Damaged: The spire, left, was smashed by the quake, leaving debris, right, on the floor

 
Crushed: Cars were smashed in Virginia after the huge East Coast earthquake 



 
Wreckage: Pictures show the devastating aftermath of the quake in Virginia 



 
'Clean up on aisle five': Debris covers the aisle floor at the Miller's mart food store in Mineral, Virginia 

Overall damage caused across the coast was estimated to be a huge $100 million.In Mineral, Virginia - the epicentre 
of the earthquake - people's homes were trashed and supermarkets looked 
as if they had been ransacked by looters. 
Tilting? The Washington Monument has been closed to the public indefinitely  
 As ripples from the tremor hit 
Washington and New York, city streets across the coast were filled with 
thousands of people hauled out of buildings for fear they could 
collapse.
There were also fears of a nuclear 
disaster of the kind seen in Japan's Fukushima because the epicentre was
just ten miles from a nuclear power plant.
Federal officials said two nuclear 
reactors at the North Anna Power Station in Louisa County, Virginia, 
were automatically taken off line by safety systems.
At the Pentagon, it was reported that staff ran from the building fearing they were under attack.
Meanwhile,
it was announced today that the Washington Monument will be closed 
indefinitely to the public after engineers found cracks in the building.
The monument suffered minor damage but cracks were found in the stones at the top of the structure, sparking fears of collapse. A police officer had earlier insisted he had seen the monument tilting because of the vibrations.A family who were at the top of the monument when the quake hit said they felt it swap almost a foot, while pieces of the structure fell on top of them.At the National Cathedral in Washington D.C. three of the four pinnacles of the tower were damaged.Engineers are currently working to try to limit the damage. 
Barricaded: US Capitol Police officers secure the streets outside the US Capitol in Washington, D.C. 
 
Precautions: Staff ran from the Pentagon after the earthquake, thinking it was an attack  

 
Open space: Workers stand in Foley Square park in New York after the earthquake 

The 5.9-magnitude tremor struck at about 2pm local time with shallow tremors of about 3.7 miles deep, which is thought to explain why the shaking was so widespread.
The
U.S. Geological Survey said the earthquake was half a mile deep and 
centred near Louisa, Virginia, about 40 miles north west of Richmond. 
It is though to have been the strongest quake to hit the Virginia area for seven decades.
The previous record for an earthquake in the Washington, D.C. area was on July 16, 2010, when a 3.6 magnitude one struck.
 
Out of order: A gas pump in Mineral, Virginia, is cordoned off and out of service after being damaged by the earthquake 






 
Fallen bricks: A man walks past bricks that fell off of a house in Baltimore 

 
Recovery mission: Christopher Hartman works on the roof installing a tarpaulin after the earthquake tore down parts of the chimney on his dad's office in Mineral, Virginia 
'This
is one of the largest earthquakes on the east coast in quite a while, 
in many decades at least,' USGS spokeswoman Lucy Jones told CNN.Tremors were also felt as far north as New York City and Martha's Vineyard, where President Obama is vacationing.
 

More...

Nuclear plant near epicentre shut down because of safety fears
The first major threat to U.S. in years: Florida and Carolinas on alert as Hurricane Irene rips through Caribbean
Caught on camera: The dramatic moment the earthquake hit New York City
Seismologists shocked by biggest earthquake to hit Virginia in 110 YEARS

There were no immediate reports of deaths, but fire officials in Washington said there were injuries.According to reports, President Obama had just been starting a round of golf when the earthquake struck - although the vacationing president said he didn't feel anything.The Capitol Building was also evacuated after the quake struck.Pictures hanging on the walls at the Capitol reportedly fell to the floor from the shocks.

 
Shocked: Office workers gather on the sidewalk in downtown Washington 


 
Thankful: Co-workers Susan Sproul, left, and Susan Davidson hug after evacuating from their building after an earthquake was felt in Baltimore 
 
Bad timing: A bride in her wedding dress runs from the courthouse in Lower Manhattan in New York after feeling the terrifying shake 
US aviation authorities halted flights at several airports after the shake was felt.
'We're
getting a lot of calls on buildings shaking but there's no report of 
any structural damage at this time,' a spokesman for the New York City 
Fire Department said.Buildings in Boston were evacuated, while witnesses said the quake was felt as far away as Toronto.

 
Impact: The earthquake could be felt across the East Coast of America  In New York, many office buildings 
were evacuated.Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly was in the NYPD's 14th floor executive command centre planning a 9-11 memorial service.'We felt a rumbling and the floor shaking underneath,' said his spokesman, Deputy Commissioner Paul Browne.Mary Lupoli, 64, a supervisor in the NYPD's public inquiry office at 1 Police Plaza, said she thought the worst when the evacuation order came.'I kind of thought it could be a terrorist attack. It's THAT time,' she said.The 26-story federal courthouse in lower Manhattan began swaying and hundreds of people fled into the street.When Ellen Rea felt the tremors in her New York she panicked and thought of 10 years ago.'I’m not a person who gets scared, but I thought of 9/11 and thought what the hell happened?” she told CNNShe remembered being near the World Trade Center nearly 10 years ago and coming home with the ashes in her hair.'It actually surprised me how those thoughts came up,' she said.  'I’m a tough New Yorker. I was really surprised that was the first thought.'Charlene Lloyd, 25, who works on the 60th floor of the Empire State 
Building, told the New York Daily News: 'It felt like I was in a boat. I was on the phone with a client, and I hung up and ran.'Bill Parks, from Hummelstown, added: 'Our townhouse started shaking a short time ago and 
branches started to fall off trees and hit our windows and hit our roof 
like crazy.'
 
Ripples: This map shows the vast spread of the affect of the earthquake. Buildings were evacuated as far away as Toronto, Canada 







 
Shaken: Live pictures from Washington and New York, which felt the shudder 

'It lasted about 10 seconds and was as
bad as the Northridge after shock I had experienced while visiting in 
California. I ran outdoors and found my neighbour calling a friend in 
Virginia who also felt the profound quake. This quake was like none I 
ever experienced in the East in my life and I am 76 years old.'The city said calls to 911 spiked to 6,900 in the half hour between 1.30 pm and 2.00pm, most placed in the final 10 minutes. Normally, 911 receives 800 calls in a half hour.Thomas
McGarry, 55, has run a small convenience store kiosk above subway 
tracks right in front of New York city hall for the last year and a 
half. 

He told MailOnline he was in the kiosk when the quake hit. 'We all looked at each other. I thought the floor was going to cave in,' he said.

 
Calling home: Office workers gather on a sidewalk after their building was evacuated following an earthquake in New York  

 
Damage: A maintenance worker looks for additional cracked windows in a building on Market Street in Philadelphia 
 He added that it wasn't long before workers at the government buildings on Broadway poured into the street. 'They were flooding out, like on 9/11. We couldn't even get out of the shop to look because we were surrounded.'Flora
Gross, also 55, was working on the fourth floor of a federal office 
building on church street, just down the street from ground zero, when 
she felt the tremors. 
 
Calm: New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg speaks after the earthquake 
 
Just in case: Children are evacuated from the Jacob K. Javits Federal building in New York 



 
Scared: Suzanne Beatty comforts her son Quentin Beatty, 7, on a street in TriBeCa, New York 
'We thought it was construction,' she said. 'But then my daughter called from uptown and said: 'Mummy we just had an earthquake.' Her husband, who works as a maintenance worker uptown, told her he was on a ladder when the quake hit. 'He thought his legs were giving out before realising the whole building was shaking,' she said.When Alex Priest, a director of a marketing company, felt the tremors on his 7th
floor office in Bethesda, Maryland, he suspected a 
terrorist attack. He told CNN he and his co-workers sprinted out of the building.
'I was young when the attacks happened,' said Mr Priest, 22, about 
9/11.  'For the vast majority of my formative years, we’ve just had this
national security mindset. There are terrorists out there.'
'Just being in that environment and having that as a constant issue 
in the news and because of the 9/11 anniversary, the first thing that 
comes into your mind any time something bad happens is "Oh my God, is it 
terrorist attack?"'
 
Aghast: People who came out on the street after an earthquake look up at a window that cracked during the quake on Market Street in Philadelphia 

 
Gathered: People gather for safety in a garden in Lower Manhattan after the earthquake in Virginia was felt in New York 
Paul Badger said he was sitting in his office in Troutman, North Carolina, when the earthquake hit.'I
could feel my chair slowly rocking back and forth and see my computer 
monitors rocking slightly,' he told the Charlotte Observer.Another resident told the newspaper that dishes and plates in his house shook. 

Control towers at John F. Kennedy and Newark Liberty International airports were also evacuated.

Andre Smith-Pugh, 25, felt the shaking from the top of the Eisenhower Executive Office Building.'It felt like the scaffolding was 
coming down,' he told the New York Times. 'It felt like a big truck 
slammed into the side of the building right here at the White House.'
In Mineral, Virginia, which is four 
miles from the quake’s centre, residents said there had been extensive 
damage, with pictures falling off walls and crockery smashing from 
shelves.
 
Wrecked: Damage can be seen on the street outside a library in Washington DC 


 
Shattered: Part of the library's roof crumbled during the 5.9 magnitude earthquake  

 
Broken: Cracks appear on the facade of a building on Market Street in downtown Philadelphia 
In Charleston, West Virginia, hundreds
of workers left the state Capitol building and employees at other 
downtown office buildings were asked to leave.‘The whole building shook,’ said 
Jennifer Bundy, a spokeswoman for the state Supreme Court. ‘You could 
feel two different shakes. Everybody just kind of came out on their 
own.’In Connecticut, play was stopped during a tennis match at the New Haven Open after the stadium on the Yale campus shook.The umpire stopped the game between Jelena Jankovic of Serbia and Elena Vesnina of Russia after spectators felt three waves of shaking and water bottles sloshed back and forth. According to reports, tremors were felt as far away as Toronto, Canada.On King Street West in Toronto, office workers evacuated buildings. One, named Amanda, told the Toronto News her whole office rolled. 'It was very unnerving,' she said. 'I have no words.'Social networking site
Twitter lit up with reports of the earthquake from people using the 
site up and down the U.S. eastern seaboard.‘People pouring out of buildings and 
onto the sidewalks and Into Farragut Park in downtown DC...,’ tweeted 
Republican strategist Kevin Madden.Missouri senator Claire McCaskill tweeted that her staff in Washington was in an ‘emergency location. Hope everyone is OK.’
 
Blower: President Obama was busy on the golf course when he heard the news 



 
On holiday: President Barack Obama, second from left, felt the quake while playing golf 





 
Hard at play: President Barack Obama plays the first hole of the Farm Neck Golf Club today 
John Gurlach, air traffic controller at the Morgantown Municipal Airport was in a 40-foot-tall tower when the earth trembled.‘There were two of us looking at each other saying, “What's that?”’ he said, even as a commuter plane was landing. ‘It was noticeably shaking. It felt like a B-52 unloading.’Not everyone, however, was quite so terrified by the tremors. On Wall Street traders could be heard shouting: 'Carry on
trading!' despite the shaking.Watch the video


 
Explore more:People: Jelena Jankovic
Places: New York, Washington, Boston, Toronto, Japan, Russia, Canada, America, World Trade Center
Organisations: Pentagon, White House




Print this article



Read later



Email to a friend




Share this article: 




Facebook




Twitter




Digg it




Newsvine




Delicious




MySpace




Nowpublic




Reddit


















Previous Article
Next Article








Related Articles




Breaking News
Unusual Earthquake Swarms.  New Dangerous Fault In Oregon.  New Zealand Christchurch Earthquake Anniversary.
Powerful Earthquake Rocks Vanuatu
Alaska earthquake
Damaging Quake Nr. Lyttelton, Another Kermadec Quake.
Noda seen safe choice to lead quake-hit Japan





Advertisements






Comments




From Around The Web









 Kim Kardashian Fashion
StyleBistro








 Stylish Lauren Conrad 
Hills Freak








 100 Hottest Celebrity Couples of 2011
Zimbio








 Who's tattoo is this?
StyleBistro














About the Author






11
Kudos




+ Kudo






idareyou
Blog:
Divineskein's Weblog
KudoSurf idareyou!








From Our Partners

PC World»

Two Weeks Without Twitter: An Experiment
Preview: FridgeNotes for IPhone
Criminals Pay Top Money For Hackable Nokia Phone

Investors Business Daily»

Realistic Budgeting For Tough Times
Tactics Can Increase Web Search Ranking
Chinese Banks Look To Homegrown Software Maker






People in Pictures


Olivia Munn



Eliza Dushku




Carissa Walford



Morgan Webb




Kristen Stewart



Emma Watson




more pictures »




Top Geek Articles









Celebrities on the Phone

Cell phones are to celebrities like bats are to baseball: no one runs too far without them.










Hot Geeks -- The Sexiest Geeky Girls

These girls are gorgeous AND they'll play Warcraft with you. Doesn't get much better than that.










Hottest Girl Superhero List

A list of female video-game characters you should check out.





more articles »




Popular Geek Zines

  1

The 15 Hottest Celebrity Geek Girls 



  2

Awesome Rally Car Pics 



  3

The 20 Best Modern Vampires 



  4

Convention Booth Babes 



  5

10 Secretly Smart Celebrities 



  6

20 Tough Female Action Stars 



  7

100 Best Bikini Bodies 



  8

Before They Were Famous - Celebrity First Jobs 



  9

Celebs on Twitter 



10

Facebook News 

















Wait, There's More!  Check Out Today's Top Stories




Zimbio





Alyson Hannigan: 'I'm Not Pregnant,' I Just 'Need to Do...





Hookups, Breakups & Babies - September 5, 2011





Celebrity Style Recyclers






Justin Bieber Earns Bragging Rights, Raises $10K at...





Celebrities Getting Parking Tickets





Spotted: Brad Pitt, Angelina Jolie and Kids See 'Smurfs...



More »





StyleBistro





Vera Wang Designing a Knockoff of Kim Kardashian's...





Exclusive Interview: Brandy, StyleBistro Celebrity Guest...





Video: Emma Watson's Lancôme Campaign






Cate Blanchett Unveils the Secrets to Her Flawless...





Zoe Saldana's Celebrity Closet Crushes





Real vs. Steal: Get Rosie Huntington-Whiteley's Glam '70s...



More »










HomeTerms & PoliciesHelpCompany WikizineFor BloggersAdvertiseSitemapContentmapAbout Us
Copyright © 2011 - Zimbio, Inc.  Some rights reserved.









