INDIA - powered by FeedBurner
&



INDIA

syndicated content powered by FeedBurner






...

Reset this favorite; show all Subscribe options



Subscribe Now!
...with web-based news readers. Click your choice below:







...with other readers:

(Choose Your Reader)FeedDemonNetNewsWireNewsFireNewsGator Outlook EditionRSSOwlShrookUniversal Subscription Mechanism (USM)


 View Feed XML




FeedBurner makes it easy to receive content updates in My Yahoo!, Newsgator, Bloglines, and other news readers.

Learn more about syndication and FeedBurner...

Current Feed Content



My TEACHER my Hero-My SCHOOL my Temple!


Posted: 2011-09-05 10:56:29 UTC+05:30

Some touching quotes on Teacher's Day. 

My TEACHER my HEROMy SCHOOL my TEMPLE!Architect UK Bhoobalan-archbhoo
Famous Sayings About Teachers
"Teaching is not a lost art, but the regard for it is a lost tradition." - Jacques Barzun 
"Good teachers are costly, but bad teachers cost more." - Bob Talbert 
"The true teacher defends his pupils against his own personal influence. He inspires self-distrust. He guides their eyes from himself to the spirit that quickens him. He will have no disciple." - Amos Bronson Alcott 
"A good teacher is like a candle - it consumes itself to light the way for others." -Anonymous 
"Teaching is leaving a vestige of one self in the development of another. And surely the student is a bank where you can deposit your most precious treasures." - Eugene P. Bertin 
"The mediocre teacher tells. The good teacher explains. The superior teacher demonstrates. The great teacher inspires." - William Arthur Ward 
"A teacher's purpose is not to create students in his own image, but to develop students who can create their own image." - Anonymous 
"What the teacher is, is more important than what he teaches." - Karl Menninger 
"The dream begins with a teacher who believes in you, who tugs and pushes and leads you to the next plateau, sometimes poking you with a sharp stick called truth." - Dan Rather 
"In teaching you cannot see the fruit of a day's work. It is invisible and remains so, maybe for twenty years." - Jacques Barzun 
"Teaching is the profession that teaches all the other professions." - Anonymous 
"The best teachers teach from the heart, not from the book." - Anonymous 
"A teacher affects eternity; he can never tell where his influence stops." - Henry Brooks Adams 
"Teachers, I believe, are the most responsible and important members of society because their professional efforts affect the fate of the earth." - Helen Caldicott 
"Better than a thousand days of diligent study is one day with a great teacher." -Japanese proverb 
"The whole art of teaching is only the art of awakening the natural curiosity of young minds for the purpose of satisfying it afterwards." -Anatole France 
"Those who educate children well are more to be honored than parents, for these only gave life, those the art of living well." - Aristotle 
"A gifted teacher is as rare as a gifted doctor, and makes far less money" - Anonymous 





शिक्षकों दिन день учителя 教师节 World Teachers' day-Sep 5 India,Russia,China!


Posted: 2011-09-05 10:32:18 UTC+05:30





букет на день учителя
“Matha Pitha Guru Deivam” 
 माता, पिता, गुरु, देवम्
Mother Father Teacher God.
is a very popular adage or phrase in Sanskrit. 

meaning says first mother, then father, then teacher, and only after all of them, God. In traditional Hindu gurukuls.

or 

Mother, Father and Teachers are our God!

"My Teacher My Hero" 
I chose this special present because I wanted you to know, 
That I'm grateful for your hard work in helping me to grow. 
For your constant understanding and for always being there, 
To tell me I can do it and to show me that you care!


God understood our thirst for 
knowledge, and our need to be led 
by someone wiser; 
He needed a heart of compassion, 
of encouragement, and patience; 
Someone who would accept 
the challenge regardless of the 
opposition; 
Someone who could see potential 
and believe in the best in others . . . 
So He made Teachers. 

Teachers Paint their minds and guide their thoughts Share their achievements and advise their faults 
Inspire a Love of knowledge and truth As you light the path Which leads our youth 
For our future brightens with each lesson you teach Each smile you lengthen Each goal you help reach 
For the dawn of each poet each philosopher and king Begins with a Teacher And the wisdom they bring.
World Teachers' Day is celebrated across the world on October 5.
China (Mainland) September 10
India September 5
Indonesia November 25
Malaysia May 16
Russia October 5
Germany October 5





http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Saraswati
In Hinduism Saraswati (Sanskrit: सरस्वती, Sarasvatī ?, Tamil: சரஸ்வதி,Sarasvatī ?, is the goddess of knowledge, music, arts, science and technology. She is the consort of Brahma. Saraswati is considered to be the "mother of theVedas".

The name Saraswati came from "saras" (meaning "flow") and "wati" (meaning "a woman"). So, Saraswati is symbol of knowledge; its flow (or growth) is like a river and knowledge is supremely alluring, like a beautiful woman.

Saraswati is known as a guardian deity in Buddhism who upholds the teachings ofGautama Buddha by offering protection and assistance to practitioners. She is known in Burmese as Thurathadi (သူရဿတီ, pronounced [θùja̰ðədì] or [θùɹa̰ðədì]) or TipitakaMedaw (တိပိဋကမယ်တော်, pronounced [tḭpḭtəka̰ mɛ̀dɔ̀]), Chinese as Biàncáitiān (辯才天), in Thai as Surasawadee (สุรัสวดี) and in Japanese as Benzaiten (弁才天/弁財天).

In the East Indian states of Bihar, West Bengal, Orissa Saraswati is considered to be a daughter of Durga along with her sister Lakshmi and her brothers Ganesha and Karthikeya.

Saraswati Temple in Bali, Indonesia.

Mythology

In the Rigveda, Saraswati is a river as well as its personification as a goddess. In the post-Vedic age, she began to lose her status as a river goddess and became increasingly associated with literature, arts, music, etc. In Hinduism, Saraswati represents intelligence, consciousness, cosmic knowledge, creativity, education, enlightenment, music, the arts, eloquence and power. Hindus worship her not only for "academic knowledge", but for "divine knowledge" essential to achieve moksha.

In some Puranas (like Skanda Purana) she is daughter of Shiva (Shivaanujaa) and in someTantras with Ganesha.

The original (spiritual) forms of devas including Saraswati are present in the spiritual world:

In the center reside the deities of fire, sun and moon, Kurma-avatara, Ananta Sesha, andGaruda, the master of the three Vedas. The Vedic hymns and all sacred mantras also stay in that holy place, which is made of all the Vedas, and which is known in the Smriti-sastra [Scriptures of Remembrance] as the yoga-pitha [Sanctuary of Union]. (Padma Purana Uttara-khanda 256.23)

Accompanied by Lakshmi and other associates, the chatur-vyuha [Four Expansions] headed by Lord Vasudeva are manifest in the eight directions, beginning with the east. In the directions beginning with the southeast, the palaces of Lakshmi, Saraswati, Rati, and Kanti respectively are situated.[clarification needed]

According to Vedanta she is considered to be the feminine energy and knowledge aspect (Shakti) of Brahman, as one of many aspects of Adi Shakti.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Teachers'_Day

In some countries, 'Teachers' Days' are intended to be special days for the appreciation of teachers. World Teachers' Day is celebrated across the world on October 5. Ever since the importance of teachers has been recognized by UNESCO, by adopting the “Recommendation concerning the status of teachers”, World Teachers' Day has been celebrated annually. This includes celebrations to honor the teachers for their special contribution in a particular field area or the community in general.

The idea of celebrating Teacher's Day took ground independently in many countries during the XX century; in most cases, they celebrate a local educator or an important milestone in education (for example, Argentina celebrates Domingo Faustino Sarmiento's death on September 11 since 1915, while India celebrates Sarvapalli Radhakrishnan's birthday on September 5 since 1962). These two factors explain why almost all countries celebrate this day on different dates, unlike many other International Days.


Dr sarvepalli RadhakrishnanPresident of India
In office
13 May 1962 – 13 May 1967 
http://www.iloveindia.com/indian-heroes/sarvepalli-radhakrishnan.html
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sarvepalli_Radhakrishnan

Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan pronunciation (help·info), OM, FBA (Telugu: సర్వేపల్లి రాధాకృష్ణ 5 September 1888 – 17 April 1975) born in Tiruttani of Tamil Nadu State in India, was an Indian philosopher and statesman. He was the first Vice President of India (1952–1962) and subsequently the second President of India (1962–1967).

One of India's most influential scholars of comparative religion and philosophy, Radhakrishnan is thought of having built a bridge between the East and the West by showing that the philosophical systems of each tradition are comprehensible within the terms of the other. He wrote authoritative exegeses of India's religious and philosophical literature for the English speaking world. His academic appointments included the King George V Chair of Mental and Moral Science at the University of Calcutta (1921–?) andSpalding Professor of Eastern Religion and Ethics at Oxford University (1936–1952).

Among the many honours he received were a knighthood (1931), the Bharat Ratna (1954) and the Order of Merit in 1963. His birthday is celebrated in India as Teachers' Day on 5 September.


http://www.china.org.cn/international/60znwj/node_7077065.htm

http://www.unesco.org/new/en/education/themes/education-building-blocks/teacher-education/advocacy/world-teachers-day/
World Teachers’ Day, October 5

World Teachers’ Day, held annually on 5 October since 1994, commemorates the anniversary of the signing in 1966 of the UNESCO/ILO Recommendation Concerning the Status of Teachers. It is an occasion to celebrate the essential role of teachers in providing quality education at all levels. 

World Teachers' Day 2011

World Teachers' Day 2011 focuses on gender equality. The slogan is "Teachers for gender equality". 













Rio de janeiro, Brazil


Posted: 2011-09-04 14:24:08 UTC+05:30
Sea of Humanity, Rio De Janeiro, Brazil














Brazil
Coordinates: 22°54′30″S 43°11′47″W 

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rio_de_Janeiro

Rio de Janeiro (English pronunciation: /riːoʊ deɪ ʒəˈnɛəroʊ/ or /ˈriːoʊ deɪ dʒəˈnɛəroʊ/;local Portuguese pronunciation: [ˈʁiu dʒi ʒaˈnejɾu],[1] River of January), commonly referred to simply as Rio, is the capital city of the State of Rio de Janeiro, the second largest city of Brazil, and the third largest metropolitan area and agglomeration in South America, 6th largest in the Americas, and 26th in the world.

The city was the capital of Brazil for nearly two centuries, from 1763 to 1815 during the Portuguese colonial era, 1815 to 1821 as the capital of the United Kingdom of Portugal, Brazil and Algarves, 1822 to 1960 as an independent nation. Rio is nicknamed the Cidade Maravilhosa or "Marvelous City".

Rio de Janeiro represents the second largest GDP in the country (and 30th largest in the world in 2008), estimated at about 343 billion reais (IBGE/2008) (nearly US$201 billion), and is the headquarters of two major Brazilian companies –Petrobras and Vale, and major oil companies and telephony in Brazil, besides the largest conglomerate of media and communications companies in Latin America, the Globo Organizations. The home of many universities and institutes, it is the second largest center of research and development in Brazil, accounting for 17% of national scientific production – according to 2005 data.

Rio de Janeiro is the most visited city in southern hemisphere and is known for its natural settings, carnival celebrations, samba, Bossa Nova, and balneariobeaches such as Barra da Tijuca, Copacabana, Ipanema, and Leblon. Some of the most famous landmarks in addition to the beaches include the giant statue ofChrist the Redeemer ('Cristo Redentor') atop Corcovado mountain, named one of theNew Seven Wonders of the World; Sugarloaf mountain (Pão de Açúcar) with its cable car; the Sambódromo, a permanent grandstand-lined parade avenue which is used during Carnival; and Maracanã Stadium, one of the world's largest football stadiums. The 2016 Summer Olympics will take place in Rio de Janeiro, which will mark the first time a South American city hosts the event.[10] Rio's Maracanã Stadium will also host the final match for 2014 FIFA World Cup. Rio de Janeiro will also host World Youth Day in 2013.





Singapore imposes new standards for air-con, refrigerators.


Posted: 2011-09-04 10:53:45 UTC+05:30

KUALA LUMPUR (Sept 2, 2011): Malaysian exporters and manufacturers must comply immediately with the minimum energy performance standards imposed by Singapore, effective Sept 1, 2011, to ensure continued market access for air-conditioners and refrigerators in the city state.


In a statement today, the Malaysia External Trade Development Corp (Matrade) said manufacturers and exporters who supplied household air-cons and refrigerators in Singapore must also register themselves with the country’s National Environment Agency (NEA).

Matrade said the air-con and refrigerator models must also be registered and carry a certificate of registration, valid for three years.

"Once this policy comes into force, all importers, manufacturers, distributors, retailers, property developers and contractors must ensure that their units are affixed with the NEA’s energy label," it said.

It said to remain competitive in the market, Malaysian companies must be wary of the possible additional cost to be incurred following the implementation of the standards.

"Apart from the registration fee (currently at S$34 [RM84]) and renewal fees (S$18 [RM44]) for each registrable product, additional costs will be incurred when carrying out the necessary tests at the approved testing laboratories," it said.

MEPS is prescribed in Singapore government’s environment protection and management regulations.

These standards are specified according to the types of goods, cooling capacity (in kW), minimum coefficient of performance, adjusted volume and maximum annual energy consumption (in kW). –Bernama





Computer History Museum, California, USA - Architecture


Posted: 2011-09-04 09:42:52 UTC+05:30

© Mark Richards & Mark Horton / Architecture

The birthplace of Pong. The home of Facebook. The epicenter of the Cloud.

Mark Horton / Architecture (MH/A)’s renovation of an existing former Silicon Graphics office building in Mountain View, California, into the new home of the Computer History Museum is genius loci made physical.

Architect: Mark Horton / Architecture

Project Team: Mark Horton, Principal; Daniel Mason, Project Architect

Location: Mountain View, California, USA

Project Year: 2011

Project Area: 25,000 sqf Primary Exhibition Space; 6,000 sqf Multi-use lobby / café / reception / gift shop

Photographs: Mark Richards, Ethan Kaplan Photography, Daniel Mason, Mark Horton / Architecture


© Ethan Kaplan Photography & Mark Horton / Architecture

The transformation of the first floor of the building into a new entrance hall and orientation theater, a café and bookstore, and a 25,000 sqf exhibition space housing Revolution : The First 2000 Years of Computing is the perfect re-use of a formerly high-flying computer company in the perfect location.


© Ethan Kaplan Photography & Mark Horton / Architecture

Surrounded by a who’s who of computing – Google, Apple, HP, Cisco- the Computer History Museum attempts to document a work-in-progress. Exhibiting everything from an ENIAC to an Enigma Machine, from an early (wooden) computer mouse (1963) to the first mechanical and programmable computer – the Babbage Difference Engine (designed in 1821), and from an Apple 1 to a Palm Pilot, the museum is a testament to the exponential evolution of computing and the truth of Moore’s Law.


© Ethan Kaplan Photography & Mark Horton / Architecture

The architectural transformation of the front portion of the existing building into an inviting and sophisticated lobby is the initial experience of the museum-goer. Semi-public amenities, including a café and a bookstore, reinforce this initial impression. An orientation theater and a transitional connection to the exhibition space move the visitor along to the 25,000 sf exhibition space.


© Ethan Kaplan Photography & Mark Horton / Architecture

Computers pervade our world today. MH/A feels lucky to have made its mark
on that world.


© Ethan Kaplan Photography & Mark Horton / Architecture


© Mark Richards & Mark Horton / Architecture
---
Christopher Henry, Archdaily  31st August, 2011





RIO 2016 Olympic stadium competition Winner AECOM!


Posted: 2011-09-04 08:51:26 UTC+05:30



AECOM has just been announced as the winning firm for the international competition held for the master plan design of Rio 2016 Olympic Park. The first international architecture competition held in the country, the English firm is quite experienced in master plan’s for the Olympics as they were responsible for London’s 2012 Olympic Park Master Plan. The jury chose the winning project by AECOM with chief architect Bill Hanway and Brazilian project author Daniel Gusmão,  because of its unique concept of operation, separate access for athletes and the audience, logistics for the transport system, the viability of implementation and access for parking. In the legacy that the project will leave to the city, the highlights were environmental preservation and the viability of maintaining and preserving the lagoon.More about the winning project and the competition along with plans following the break.The ceremony at the Maria Lenk Aquatic Park, located within the sports complex that will be the heart of the 2016 Olympic Games, was attended by authorities including the Sports Minister Orlando Silva, the mayor of Rio de Janeiro, Eduardo Paes and President of the IAB-RJ, Sergio Magalhães. The announcement of the three winning projects and the three honorable mentions demonstrated the international character of the contest: a Brazilian, an Australian and a Portuguese firm received the honorable mentions. As for the three winning projects, the third place went to the project signed by Portuguese architect Tomás Fernandes Almeida Salgado; the second, to architect Ron Turner, representing an American firm which was associated with the Brazilian firms CDC (Coutinho, Diegues and Lamb) and MPG (Miguel Pinto Guimarães ); the
winner was the English project.© AECOM“It’s a competition for the General Urban Plan. Soon, as announced by Mayor Eduardo Paes, the equipment that will compose the Park will be determined through specific architectural competitions in the next months,” says Sergio Magalhães, IAB/RJ president. Two scenarios were considered: the Olympic Games mode, which would ensure the best conditions for the performance of the sporting competitions, and the Legacy mode, which would ensure the viability of installing new, sustainable enterprises after the Olympics. The Olympic Park has an area of ​​1,18 million square meters and will host 15 Olympic and 11 Paralympics sports contests. In addition to the existing equipment – such as the Maria Lenk Aquatic Park, the Rio Arena and the Cycle Track -, the project includes the construction of temporary facilities (such as the hockey center, the tennis courts and the sponsors villa), permanent equipment (science and sports laboratory, athletic track, Olympic hall, media center and hotel, residential, commercial and leisure enterprises), and the preservation of the green areas system.© AECOM“The Olympic Park will be an urban development of international standard, which not only promotes the best in design, technology, sports and culture, but also satisfies intrinsic urgent and vital needs to its residents, businesses and the environment. Using our experience, we want to ensure that the investment and energy focused on the Barra neighborhood will promote the greatest possible benefit in the long term, “says Bill Hanway, an American who has been living in London for 14 years. He graduated from Washington University (St. Louis, MO), with a post-graduate degree from the School of Design at Harvard University. . In addition to the operational responsibilities for the global firm AECOM, Bill also provides the design leadership and management of multidisciplinary teams delivering projects in the UK, Continental Europe, the US and the Middle East. His UK work focuses on urban regeneration projects, spending the last five years on developing the London 2012 Olympic and Legacy master plan.© AECOM“Reconciling the needs of staging a global sporting event and of a successful and lasting new urban structure is a challenge that our three Master Plans propose to resolve by overcoming the large and small complexities of the Games, allowing a clear and practical approach for the project implementation. Our proposal is an Olympic park of international standard comprising permanent and temporary structures on which the new network of streets and squares of the future city will be located, “added the winner.Cite:
Minner , Kelly . "AECOM Wins International Competition for Master Plan of Rio 2016 Olympic Park" 22 Aug 2011. ArchDaily. Accessed 04 Sep 2011. <http://www.archdaily.com/162510>





The Rio 2016 Olympic and Para-Olympic games, together with other large events scheduled for upcoming years, such as the 2014 World Cup and the 2011 Military Games, generate enormous opportunities for the development of Rio de Janeiro. The Rio 2016 Olympic and Para-Olympic Games represent a celebration of sports and will be a source of transformation for the city, promoting an environmental, architectural, cultural and sustainable economy legacy, benefiting the urban environment and the quality of life of citizens.The Rio 2016 Olympic Park is located in one of the four Olympic centers scheduled for development of the 2016 Games, and concentrates the greatest number of sporting equipment and installations. It is a fundamental space for the development of the Olympic Games and for the vitality of Rio de Janeiro. During the Games, this center will concentrate the main sporting events and offer large meeting spaces for the public, sponsors and athletes. Built in Barra da Tijuca, the Olympic Park will be centrally located in relation to the other sporting arenas in Deodoro, Maracanã and Copacabana. It will also be the largest new development built exclusively for the Games.The International Competition aims to reach a wide range of professionals and seeks creative solutions that unite quality, functionality, and sustainability, which should be joined by use, social, cultural and environmental values. The Competition should favor wide-ranging contributions and establish an integrated approach that ensures that the Project’s requirements are incorporated into the planning, development, and delivery of the Olympic Park installations, from concept to construction of all of its elements. It is expected that the Competition result in a high-quality Olympic Park not only for the sporting events, but also for the region and for the city, as expressions of contemporary culture.For more information, and to download all the necessary documents, please refer to the competition’s official website.





India will have 403,000 millionaires by 2015


Posted: 2011-08-31 20:55:44 UTC+05:30
 
HONG KONG- Asia will add 1.66 million dollar-millionaires by 2015, taking the total number of wealthy to 2.82 million as the world's fastest-growing major economies of China and India continue to mint millionaires, a report from Julius Baer said on Wednesday. 

The Swiss wealth manager forecast that the wealth of high networth individuals (HNIs), those with $1 million or more in investable assets, would nearly triple to $15.8 trillion in the five years to 2015.

 
China alone would be home to nearly half of the millionaires in Asia with combined wealth of $8.8 trillion. The world's most populous nation had 502,000 million HNIs with investable assets totaling $2.6 trillion, the report said.

 
India would more than double the number of HNIs to 403,000 by 2015, while Indonesia would see the highest growth rate in the number of wealthy, up by a quarter to 99,000, the first such report from Julius Baer said. 
 China (11%), India (9%)

The wealth manager forecast that China and India would collectively contribute 40 percent to global growth for 2011 and 2012. 

 
 Ranks of the rich by 2015 

  
Country No of HNIs (1,000) Wealth of HNIs ($bln) 

China 1378 8764 

India 403 2465 

Indonesia 99 487 

Philippines 38 164 

Thailand 128 609 

South Korea 310 1074 

Malaysia 68 329 

Taiwan 136 593 

Hong Kong 131 711 

Singapore 129 616 

Total 2820 15812
--
Times of India

 







Malaysia-Singapore,1961 water agreement with Johor expires today! August 31 2011


Posted: 2011-08-31 17:35:06 UTC+05:30


Throughout the term of the 1961 Water Agreement, which expires on Wednesday, the Johor water authorities and Public Utilities Board (PUB) enjoyed a 'good and cordial' working relationship, both sides said on Tuesday night when announcing the handover of waterworks and other facilities to Johor.

A spillway at the Gunung Pulai Reservoir which was previously managed by Singapore's Public Utilities Board (PUB) to be handed over to the Johor State Government. -- PHOTO: THE STAR
They also noted in a statement on Tuesday night that at the Singapore-Malaysia Leaders' Retreat in May last year, Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong informed his Malaysian counterpart Najib Razak that on expiry of the pact, Singapore would hand over the waterworks under the agreement to the Johor water authorities free of charge and in good working order.

PUTRAJAYA (June 27, 2011): Malaysia and Singapore
Since then, a Joint Technical Committee and Joint Working Group of officials from the PUB and Johor state government worked on the transfer of the waterworks and facilities. This includes training employees who will take over its operations from Thursday.

The handover on Wednesday involves the Skudai and Gunung Pulai water treatment plants, which were built and managed by PUB for 50 years, as well as two pump houses in Pontian and Tebrau.

By Teo Wan Gek
--


Singapore-Malaysia water agreements

Singapore and Malaysia have signed four agreements to regulate the supply of water from Malaysia to Singapore. The first - signed in 1927 - is no longer in force. Water imported from Malaysia under the other three agreements - signed in 1961, 1962 and 1990 - meets about half of Singapore's water demand. However, this will be reduced after the 1961 pact expires in August 2011. The government has also stated that Singapore can be self-sufficient in water by the time the 1962 and 1990 agreements expire in 2061. 

1927 Agreement 
Dated 5 December 1927, this was signed between the municipal commissioners of the town of Singapore and Sultan Ibrahim of the state and territories of Johor. It allowed Singapore to rent 2,100 acres (8.5km2) of land in Gunong Pulai for the purpose of supplying raw water from the area to Singapore. An annual rent of 30 cents per acre (per 4,047m2) was payable on the land, but the water was free. Johor set aside an additional 25mi2 (64.7km2) of land and agreed not to alienate any part of this land for the next 21 years without the consent of the Singapore commissioners. If the latter wanted to reserve any part of this plot for drawing water, they had to give notice to the Johor government and pay an annual rent of $5 per acre. In return, Johor could obtain 800,000 gallons (3,637m3) of treated water from Singapore daily at a rate of 25 cents per 1,000 gallons (per 4.55m3). If Johor required more treated water after 1929, the amount supplied could be increased but only up to 1,200,000 gallons (5,455m3) per day. 

1961 Agreement 
This was called the Tebrau and Scudai Rivers Water Agreement and was made between the city council of the state of Singapore and the government of the state of Johor. The agreement was officially signed on 2 October 1961 but took effect on 1 September 1961. By then, Singapore was a self-governing state within the British empire while Malaya was already an independent nation. The 1927 agreement was declared void in this document. 

The agreement gave Singapore the full and exclusive right to draw off all the water within the designated land at Gunong Pulai, Sungei Tebrau and Sungei Scudai for a period of 50 years up till 2011. Singapore was to pay an annual rent of $5 per acre for the land and a charge of 3 cents for every 1,000 gallons of water. Singapore also agreed to provide Johor with a daily supply of treated water up to 12% of the raw water it drew, subject to a minimum of four million gallons (18,184m3), and at a price of 50 cents per 1,000 gallons. If the 12% provided by Singapore was insufficient, Johor could request for more treated water to be supplied. 

1962 Agreement 
Called the Johor River Water Agreement, this was signed on 29 September 1962 between the Singapore city council and the Johor state government. Valid for 99 years up till 2061, it gave Singapore the full and exclusive right to draw water from Johor River up to a maximum of 250 million gallons per day (mgd) (1.14 million cubic metres a day). In return, Johor was entitled to a daily supply of treated water from Singapore up to 2% of the raw water it supplied. 

Singapore had to pay rent for the land it used "at the standard rate applicable to building lots on town land". The water prices remained the same as in the previous agreement - 3 cents per 1,000 gallons of raw water supplied to Singapore and 50 cents per 1,000 gallons of treated water sold to Johor. After Singapore and Malaysia stopped using a common currency, the prices became denominated in Malaysian ringgit. 

The 1961 and 1962 agreements provided for a price review after 25 years, with arbitration being the agreed course of action if bilateral price negotiations failed. However, the Johor government chose not to revise the prices at both opportunities, in 1986 and 1987. 

The Independence of Singapore Agreement (also known as the Separation Agreement) signed between the governments of Singapore and Malaysia on 9 August 1965 guaranteed the 1961 and 1962 water agreements. 

1990 Agreement 
This was signed on 24 November 1990 between the Public Utilities Board (PUB) of Singapore and the Johor state government. It was supplementary to the 1962 pact and would also expire in 2061. A separate document was signed on the same day by the governments of Malaysia and Singapore to guarantee adherence to the agreement. 

Under this agreement, Singapore was allowed to construct a dam across Sungei Linggui to facilitate the extraction of water from Johor River, with Johor setting aside about 21,600ha (216km2) of land for the project. Singapore agreed to pay RM320 million as compensation for the permanent loss of use of the land and its associated revenue, in addition to a premium of RM18,000 per hectare (per 10,000m2) and an annual rent of RM30 for every 1,000ft2 (per 92.9m2) of the land. The cost of building and maintaining the dam would be borne by Singapore. 

In return, Singapore could buy (from Johor) treated water generated by the new dam. This would be over and above the 250mgd of raw water that it was allowed to draw from Johor River under the 1962 agreement. The price of this additional supply would be calculated based on a fixed formula: the weighted average of Johor's water tariffs plus 50% of the surplus from the sale of this water by PUB to its consumers after deducting Johor's price and PUB's cost of distribution, or 115% of the weighted average of Johor's water tariffs, whichever was higher. 

This agreement was a follow-up to the memorandum of understanding (MOU) signed on 28 June 1988 between the two countries' prime ministers at the time, Lee Kuan Yew for Singapore and Mahathir Mohamad for Malaysia. The signing of the MOU was hailed as a breakthrough in Singapore-Malaysia water relations, the culmination of six years of difficult negotiations. 

Beyond 2061 
The Singapore government has stated that it will not renew the 1961 agreement which expires in 2011. Attempts to reach a new deal with Malaysia to secure water supply for Singapore beyond 2061 have not borne fruit despite years of tedious negotiations. To reduce Singapore's dependence on imported water, the government has taken steps to increase the size of the local water catchment area and to build up the supply from non-conventional sources, namely NEWater (reclaimed water) and desalinated water. With the various water projects progressing well, government officials have assured Singaporeans that the country can be self-reliant in water by 2061 if it needs to be. 

By Chew, Valerie written on 18-Jun-2009
National Library Board Singapore InfopediaTalk  Valerie Chew
--

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Water_conflicts_between_Malaysia_and_Singapore

The first water agreement was signed between His Highness the Sultan and Sovereign Ruler of the State and Territories of Johore and the Municipal Commissioners of the Town of Singapore on 5 December 1927. This agreement is no longer in force.

On 1 September 1961, the Federation of Malaya signed an agreement giving Singapore the right to draw up to 86 million gallons of water per day collectively from the Tebrau River, the Scudai River, the Pontian Reservoir, and the Gunung Pulai Reservoir, with effect through 2011. On 29 September 1962, a further agreement was signed providing Singapore the right to draw up to 250 million gallons per day from the Johore River, with effect through 2061. Both agreements stipulated the price of 3 Malaysian cents per 1,000 gallons.







Hindu and Muslim Festivals


Posted: 2011-08-31 13:55:56 UTC+05:30
Ganesh Festival
Sand Art in Bangalore, India
Eid Mubarak, Hyderabad,India
Onam,Coimbatore, India
India
India ,Festival Sugarcane.






Happy Hari Raya Aidlfitri


Posted: 2011-08-30 08:25:00 UTC+05:30
Happy Hari Raya
Selamat Hari Raya Aidilfitri 
முபாரக்கின் வாழ்த்துக்கள்穆巴拉克愿望 
2011










Atmosphere in Kolkota,India may build structure that will outshine Taj Mahal-WAF Architecture.


Posted: 2011-08-29 20:43:21 UTC+05:30

India may build structure that will outshine Taj Mahal!!!



LONDON: If architects have their way, India may soon build a new spectacular space station-style structure which could outshine the Taj Mahal.

The glistening design, which takes its inspiration from traditional Hindu life, was revealed for world architecture competition to be held during the World Architecture Festival (WAF) in Barcelona later this year.

Atmosphere will be in Kolkata 
According to the plan, the building, called Atmosphere, will contain 80 housing units designed for multi-generational families.

Large terraces off the main facade provide considerable outside space for each home, and special panels carrying shimmering mobile reflective disks are scattered across the building's mesh finish.PTI Aug 28, 2011, 06.45pm IST
--

Awesome Buildings at the World Architecture Festival 

Architecture geeks, this post is for all of you. You have probably heard of the World Architecture Festival, an event which is held yearly to celebrate the world’s greatest buildings. Some of them are already completed, while others are in the planning stages. One thing is for sure: the entries are breathtaking. Some of them even have this out of this world look.

This year, the World Architecture Festival is going to be held in Barcelona, Spain. There are more than 700 entries coming from 59 countries. Obviously, we can’t feature all of them here, but take a look at some of the most eye catching man-made creations that have made it to the World Architecture Festival.
Atmosphere

This building complex is a project planned in the city of Kolkota, India. The idea is to provide a revolutionary type of housing for the residents of the city. Of course, culture is not disregarded, with the housing units being provisioned for multi-generational households. What is truly exceptional about the planned complex is the overall design. 



Atmosphere




Atmosphere Skyline

These images may only be concepts for now, but when the buildings are fully constructed, they will truly be breathtaking.
Taipei Nangang Office Tower

The Taipei Nangang Office Tower is also a concept for now, but knowing the propensity of the Taiwanese for groundbreaking edifices, it is very likely that the tower will be built. This shell-like building draws inspiration from river pebbles and the entire design is aimed to provide an efficient yet healthy and inspiring work place. 




Taipei Nangang Office Tower
A House Awaiting Death

The name of the house alone will get the attention of anyone – and it certainly did get mine! At first I was thinking that the house was/is awaiting death, but apparently, the owner of the house believes he will die in 15 years and that he wants to await his death in this house. 




House Awaiting Death
In any case, given the unique style of the house and the magnificent view of the sea, I suppose even I wouldn’t mind awaiting death in this house. The house is located in the Mie Prefecture in Japan. 




House Awaiting Death Interior
NLF Bursa

The NLF Bursa is located in the Nilüfer district of Bursa and is a luxury high rise residential project. I have no freakin’ idea how this building can be solid and safe with this design, but what do I know? It does look impressive, though. 





NLF Bursa




NLF Bursa at Night

Awesome or what? Check out the rest of the nominated buildings at the World Architecture Festival and vote for your favorite.  newsamachar
--
http://www.worldarchitecturefestival.com/why_exhibit.cfm

Australia - Allen Jack+Cottier / Andrew Maynard Architects / Circa Architecture / H2o architects / HASSELL / Kerstin Thompson Architects / Lahznimmo Architects  / Wilson Architects / Suters Architects.  Belgium - BURO II & ARCHI+I.  Brazil - Dipace&Dipace  / Studio MK27.  Canada - IBI Group.  Chile - Gonzalo Mardones Viviani.  China - logon / Turenscape.  Cyprus  - Theo David Architects. Denmark - 3XN / AART Architects  / Bjarke Ingels Group.  Egypt - Abiat Architects. Estonia - EA Reng.  France -LAN Architecture.  Germany - Hammoodi  Partner.  Greece - Eleanna Horiti Architecte . Hong Kong - Rocco Design Architects.  India - ADS Designs / Archohm Consults  / Malik Architecture / Manasram Architect / Nivedita & Uday Pande. Iran - F.E.A / Metaphor Architectural Associates / New Wave Architecture.  Ireland- Dhb Architects / Scott Tallon Walker. Israel - Kimmel Eshkolot architects. Japan - Sou Fujimoto Architects / Takase corporation.  Mexico - Archetonic  / Benemèrita Universidad Autonoma De Puebla / Bunker Arquitectura / Grupo Arquitech / Space.  Netherlands  - Broekbakema. New Zealand - Architecture Workshop  / Irving Smith Jack Architects. Nigeria - YTA. Norway - Solheim + Jacobsen Arkitekter. Palestinian Territory, Occupied  - Hani Hassan Architects. Portugal - Miguel Arruda  / Arquitectos Associados. Republic of Kosovo - Berisha Architects and Associates. Republic of Singapore - Architects 61 / DP Architects / Kerry Hill Architects / MKPL Architects / ONG&ONG . Spain - GPY Arquitectos. Sweden - Kjellgren Kaminsky Architecture AB / Metro Arkitekter / Sweco. Turkey - ERA Planning, Architecture, Consulting GAD / Mimarlar Workshop. United Kingdom - HawkinsBrown / ORMS Architecture Design / Stephen Marshall Architects / Studio Egret West Limited / Woods Bagot. United States of America - Carlos Zapata Studio / KieranTimberlake / Moore Ruble Yudell Architects & Planners  / Perkins+Will / Ross Barney Architects / Skidmore, Owings & Merrill.

Barcelona WAF 2011 704 entries, 284 shortlisted from 59 countries, going head to head...shortlists announced..Architecture ..64 days left.

Ar UK BHOOBALAN, FIIA, AIA





5 Places Never to Use Your Debit Card


Posted: 2011-08-28 21:38:47 UTC+05:30
No doubt about it, debit card usage is a big part of the new normal on Main Street these days as consumers try to manage credit card debt.

According to the TSYS & Mercator Advisory Group Debit Survey 2011, debit is now the preferred payment type in most point-of-sale locations, beating cash, credit cards and checks.


But that doesn't mean you should use debit cards all the time. In fact, there are some places and times that using a debit card is actually a lousy proposition.

For example, using a debit card online can work against you. If you have a problem with the purchase or your debit card number is stolen, it's a huge hassle to get the money restored to your account and making your card number safe and secure again. In the online world, credit cards are usually a better bet.


Here are some other instances where debit card usage is a bad idea:

Rental or security deposits. 
If you have to put money down to rent a car or heavy duty home improvement equipment, try not to use a debit card. Why? Because the business will actually take the money out of your account in the form of a security deposit. You'll get the cash back when you return the car or equipment. But with a credit card, the money is just "frozen" but not actually charged and you won't ever notice it's gone.

Restaurants and bars.
There are way too many prying eyes around a dining establishment to trust using your debit card. Apart from the risk of having your card stolen, restaurants are one of those rare places where someone actually walks away with your card and you don't see them for a few minutes. Much better to use cash when dining out.

Regular payments. 
Businesses love to get their sticky little fingers on your debit card number so they can extract dues straight from your bank account on a regular basis. Whether it's a gym or your insurance company, you're better off using a credit card. That's because if there's a dispute, the business won't take the cash right out of your checking account if they don't have your debit card number.

Wi-Fi hot spots.
Never use your debit card for an online purchase while at a coffee shop or other business that offers free Wi-Fi access. Many of those businesses have unsecured wireless connections, so it's much easier for hackers and scammers to log on and steal your data.

Any retail outlet where you choose the "credit" option. 
Debit cards allow you to choose between a debit (having cash taken straight out of your account) and a credit transaction (where the money will be taken out but it could be a few days later). For one, credit purchases cost the retailer more cash in swipe fees, so you could be hurting a small business owner. But the real problem is the delay when choosing credit — you may forget the purchase and not account for the money. That can lead to an overdraft situation and the onerous fees that go with them.

Debit cards are great financial tools, and it's easier carrying a card that a wad of cash. But debit cards shouldn't be used all the time — and the situations listed above should be at the top of your list of "no debit" zones in the future.


 by Brian O'Connell  MAIN ST Sunday, August 28, 2011--
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MasterCard

MasterCard Worldwide (NYSE: MA) is an American multinational corporation with its headquarters in theMasterCard International Global Headquarters inPurchase, New York. Throughout the world, its principal business is to process payments between the banks of merchants and the card issuing banks or credit unions of the purchasers who use the "MasterCard" brand debitand credit cards to make purchases. MasterCard Worldwide has been a publicly traded company since 2006. Prior to its initial public offering, The company was created by two entrepreneurs in Louisville, Ky. named Raymond Tanenhaus and Stanley Benovitz. It was absorbed by the United California Bank in year 1966. MasterCard Worldwide was a membership organizationowned by the 25,000+ financial institutions that issue its card.


MasterCard, originally known as Master Charge, was created by several California banks as a competitor to the BankAmericard issued by Bank of America, which later became the Visa credit card issued by Visa Inc. The original banks behind MasterCharge were United California Bank (later First Interstate Bank and subsequently merged into Wells Fargo Bank), Wells Fargo, Crocker National Bank (also subsequently merged into Wells Fargo), and the Bank of California(subsequently merged into the Union Bank of California).

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Visa_Inc.

Visa Inc. (pronunciation: /ˈviːzə/ or /viːsə/; NYSE: V) is a global payments technology company headquartered on 595 Market Street in San Francisco, California. It facilitates electronic funds transfers throughout the world, most commonly through Visa-branded credit cardand debit cards.Visa does not issue cards, extend credit or set rates and fees for consumers; rather, Visa provides financial institutions with Visa-branded payment products that they then use to offer credit, debit, prepaid and cash-access programs to their customers. In 2008, according to The Nilson Report, Visa held a 38.3%market share of the credit card marketplace and 60.7% of the debit card marketplace in the United States.In 2009, Visa’s global network (known as VisaNet) processed 62 billion transactions with a total volume of $4.4 trillion.


Visa has operations across Asia-Pacific, North America,Central and South America, Caribbean, Central andEastern Europe, Africa and Middle East. Visa Europe is a separate membership entity that is an exclusive licensee of Visa Inc.'s trademarks and technology in the European region, issuing cards such as Visa Debit.

http://www.pymnts.com/electronic-funds-transfer-association-launches-information-portal-on-federal-reserve-debit-card-rules-20110208006639/The Electronic Funds Transfer Association has launched an informational website to provide public information on issues surrounding the implementation of the Federal Reserve’s proposed new regulations governing debit card interchange fees. The new rules were mandated by the Durbin Interchange Amendment, part of 2010’s Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act.







Yahoo! News: Your Breaking News Photos


Posted: 2011-08-28 17:52:44 UTC+05:30
Yahoo! News: Your Breaking News Photos, a group on Flickr.





Hari Raya-Malay-Chinese-Indians Festivals week.


Posted: 2011-08-28 14:41:05 UTC+05:30
We’re different, yet alike1Malaysia1World
MALAYSIANS are in a festive mood. Not only is our country turning 54 on Aug 31 but our Muslim friends will also be celebrating Hari Raya on the same day.

It’s a double celebration for a country made up of people from diverse racial and religious backgrounds. While Muslims observe Ramadan in August, it is the Ghost Month for the Chinese, a time when ancestors are revered. 


You may have seen platform altars for prayers and offerings for this purpose.

You would’ve also noticed mooncakes on sale in restaurants and supermarkets (a tad early due to retailers taking advantage of the happy period) to commemorate the Mid-Autumn Festival and to honour the moon which is supposed to be at its fullest during this time. 

August is also a holy month for Hindus who celebrate Aadi Puram, a festival to sanctify the goddess Sakti Devi. Devotees pray to her for happiness and as a form of penance, carry the kavadi and walk on fire in a trance. It is said that barren women who do this would soon be with child. It is also the month in which the deity Krishna’s birthday falls. 

Elsewhere, many countries also celebrate their independence day in August: Singapore on Aug 9, Pakistan (Aug 14), India (Aug 15) and Indonesia (Aug 17).

We’re all different, and yet we’re all the same. 

Whether it’s Fascinating Malaysia, Incredible India or Amazing Thailand, we all want freedom to make our own choices and to express who we are. People everywhere share this simple prayer, be they in Libya, Syria, Egypt, or Somalia.

Deprive us of our basic right to live our purpose and there’ll be hunger, thirst, and unrest.

Muslims fast from sun-up to sun-down throughout Ramadan. Fasting is also part of many Hindu rites and rituals. Christians fast as a sign of sacrifice. 

Fasting is the “going without” of the things we want and to honour the things we have. It is a means of reuniting with our spirit, our “no-thingness.” It’s a way of “going within” to connect with our essential nature, as beings of peace and purity. 

It means recognising our fallibility and deciding to forgive those who have hurt us, as we have hurt others — through our disconnectedness with spirit and self. With the realisation of fasting, come the festivities. 

Festivals are also a time for reuniting — returning to that place from where we originated. It is a time for honouring our elders and being with our families.

Now consumerism will have you believe Raya is about quenching your thirst on your journey to tranquility. Retailers will coax you into buying sugar — coated pseudo — satisfiers as symbols of your dedication. I don’t think festivals are about stuff at all. Muslim, Hindu or Christian, I believe celebrations are occasions for the rediscovery of self and the return to love. 

When we are disconnected from our essence, there is falseness, emptiness and fear. Think about when you must put on a show for something you don’t really believe in. Like a child who is separated from his mother, it is traumatic when we know we’re off track on our life’s purpose or when we forget who we really are. That’s exactly when we start selling ourselves short, and behaving “less than.” So life is all about coming home. Coming home to the self. And every occasion to come home calls for a celebration. 

I wish all Muslims Selamat Hari Raya Aidilfitri. To everyone else, Selamat Hari Merdeka.
nst.com 2011/08/27  TESSIE LIM





The real Picture NASA - Hurricane Season 2011: Hurricane Irene (Atlantic Ocean)


Posted: 2011-08-27 19:56:11 UTC+05:30

Infrared image of Hurricane Irene taken at 1:59 p.m. EDT (17:59 UTC) on Aug. 26, 2011 by the Atmospheric Infrared Sounder (AIRS) instrument on NASA's Aqua spacecraft. Areas colored purple represent the storm's coldest cloud-top temperatures and areas of heaviest precipitation. 

Hurricane Irene

High above the Earth from aboard the International Space Station, astronaut Ron Garan snapped this image of Hurricane Irene as it passed over the Caribbean on Aug. 22, 2011. 

The National Hurricane Center noted on Aug. 22 that Irene is expected to produce total rainfall accumulations of 5 to 10 inches across Puerto Rico, The Virgin Islands, the Dominican Republic, Haiti, the Southeastern Bahamas and The Turks and Caicos Islands. Isolated maximum amounts of rainfall may reach up to 20 inches. 
Image Credit: NASA






Must see-Top 15 Most Beautiful Roads in the World!


Posted: 2011-08-27 18:43:18 UTC+05:30

The Overseas Highway – Florida Keys

14. Red Rock Scenic Road – USA
The Red Rock Scenic Road winds through Sedona’s Red Rock Country, often called a “museum without walls”. The road provides a splendid view of the stunning red rocks which seem alive like a timeless spirit that captivates and inspires everyone. The Red Rock Scenic byway also passes through the Montezuma Castle National Monument and the Coconino National Forest giving every driver an amazing sense of intimacy with nature.
Guoliang Tunnel Road – China
The Guoliang Tunnel Road was built by 13 local villagers headed in only five years in the Taihang mountains in the Hunan province of China. Many villagers lost their lives in accidents during the construction of this tunnel but in 1977 it was opened to traffic. The tunnel carved from the mountains is 1,200 meters long, 5 meters high and 4 meters wide and its also one of the most dangerous roads in the world. This extremely beautiful scenic route was dubbed as “the road that does not tolerate any mistakes” and its a key destination on the Chinese tourism map.
Leh–Manali Highway – India
and  more and more...all are man made landscape for man.

San Bernardino Pass – Switzerland
Los Caracoles Pass – Andes
Col de Turini – France
The Jebel Hafeet Mountain Road – UAE
Sincere thanks to wahoha!Millau Viaduct – France
Leh–Manali Highway – India
http://matadornetwork.com/trips/photo-essay-the-worlds-most-spectacular-roads-vol-2/
Millau Bridge
http://www.piarc.org/en/The World Road Association-PIARC was established in 1909. It brings together the road administrations of 118 governments and has members--individuals, companies, authorities and organizations--in over 140 countries.
http://www.theworldbyroad.com/The World by Road is an expedition that has successfully circumnavigated the globe through 68 different countries, over 6 continents, covering 70,000 miles. Two years from the start of the expedition, the crew has returned from this epic journey to Denver, CO. Our circumnavigation of the world went from North to South and East to West, spanning the farthest reaches of the road in all directions on the continents. We are currently catching up on editing video, photos and blogs, so stay tuned, the best of the content is yet to come. We are also working on a feature length documentary and book, so look for that at the beginning of next year!







Fighter jets line up with civil baby-copters


Posted: 2011-08-27 13:26:36 UTC+05:30
MIG-29 with all equipment unpacked
SU-30, an all-weather, multi-role fighter
MIG-29, a 4th generation fighter, set to counter US F-15 Eagles
MI-28, all-weather day-night military tandem two-seat anti-armor attack helicopter
Biggest helicopter exposed at MAKS – MI-26, heavy transporter
Russian two-seat copter “Berkut”
It will take you 10 mins to prepare this “Powered parachute” for a flight
Drone copter Lui has made its way here from France - in a trailer
MI-28 demonstrates its cutting-edge capabilities
US delegates visibly impressed by the piloting show
F-16 C/D Fighting Falcon, a multi-role jet fighter aircraft
US pilots relaxing in the shelter of their fighter jets
Thanks RT!






Parrots Outlive Us, -sogar papageien überleben uns, -Попугаи переживет нас-Olga Martynova


Posted: 2011-08-26 20:18:47 UTC+05:30

The first-ever Russian winner of the Roswitha Prize is the author of Even the Parrots Outlive Us, Olga Martynova.
A bilingual Russian novelist has won a prestigious literary award in Germany, the Roswitha Prize. The oldest German-language award for literature is given solely to women.


Among the previous winners are two Nobel Prize winners – the author of Lust and The Piano Teacher, Austrian novelist Elfriede Jelinek, and a Romanian-born writer showing a strong influence from Franz Kafka, Herta Muller.

The first-ever Russian winner of the Roswitha Prize, Olga Martynova, is based in Germany, where she writes poems in her native Russian language, creating prose in German.

“With this award we praise the cosmopolitan writer whose musicality, wit and impressive knowledge enrich our literary landscape,” the Roswitha Prize jury stated. 

Мартынова,Ольга Борисовна-Martyna, Olga Borisovna
Martynova’s novel Even the Parrots Outlive Us, entitled after a direct quote from The Wandering Jews by celebrated Austrian journalist and novelist Joseph Roth, has been described as one of “the best to appear in German-language literature in recent times.”

Referred to as a “perfect example of intellectualism in the best, traditional sense of the word,” the decision to award the Russian wordsmith was also explained by the fact that Martynova “gives us an opportunity to grasp again the meaning of the statement that literature’s home is where thoughtful and free people have fresh air to breathe.”Olga Martynova und ihr Roman-Debüt "Sogar Papageien überleben uns"
“We are honored that Olga Martynova is living in Germany,” members of the jury summed up.RT-
Выросла в Ленинграде. Закончила Ленинградский Педагогический институт им. Герцена (русский язык и литература). Занималась в переводческом семинаре Э. Л. Линецкой, переводила с английского (Р.Киплинг и др.). Участник литературной группы и одноименного альманаха «Камера хранения». Для поэзии Мартыновой наиболее значима линия обэриутов - раннегоЗаболоцкого, Введенского (поэма "Введенский", 2004). С 1991 вместе с мужем, писателемОлегом Юрьевым живет во Франкфурте-на-Майне. Три книги стихов в переводе на немецкий язык. Пишет прозу и эссе по-немецки. В 2003 вышел сборник избранных эссе о литературе "Wer schenkt was wem" (Rimbaud Verlag, Aachen), в 2010 — роман "Sogar Papageien überleben uns" (Literaturverlag Droschl, Graz).

Ольга Мартынова — член немецкого ПЕН-клуба.





Soviet legacy cast in stone-Museum of Totalitarian-Lenin Art museum in Bulgaria.


Posted: 2011-08-26 19:35:08 UTC+05:30

The key Soviet revolutionary who led Russia into a 70-year affair with communism, Vladimir Lenin, will be among the most important exhibits of a new museum inspired by totalitarian legacy to be opened in the former communist state of Bulgaria.

Lenin at the new Museum of Totalitarian Art (AFP Photo / Getty Images)
Lenin will enjoy the company of one of the worst dictators in history, Joseph Stalin, and their statues could serve as a “welcoming committee” saluting visitors at the front of the museum. 

The display in a Sofia suburb promises to feature over 100 historic works which used to be buried at warehouses for good, as many thought, but are now revealed again. 

It has reportedly cost the government over $2 million to create the Museum of Socialist Art, which is scheduled to open its doors on September. 

The selection of works captures images of the “working class” as well as various communist leaders cast in bronze or in oil, in various emotional states and stages of their life, but often manifesting ideological solidarity and joy with their neighbors, as was the case with Bulgaria and the Soviet Union. 

The controversial display has given rise to “eternal debate” over whether similar museums functioning in a number of other former communist countries, like Hungary or Czech Republic, inform younger generations of the dreadful past of their grandparents, or rather induce a feeling of nostalgia and even empathy with dictators and their regimes. 

For instance, a recent survey by the leading Russian pollster, the Levada Center, has shown that 45 per cent of Russians believe that Stalin played a “positive role” in history, with only 35 per cent left to disagree. 

If, after the collapse of the Soviet Union, numerous monuments to Soviet leaders went to be demolished in Russia and overseas, with a breath of collective relief, the current social “trend” often sees monuments to Stalin and Lenin brought back to life and re-erected.RT





State-by-state glance on how Hurricane Irene is predicted to strike. USA


Posted: 2011-08-26 09:02:22 UTC+05:30


Here is a state-by-state glance on how Hurricane Irene is predicted to strike states all along the Eastern Seaboard as of Thursday evening:                        East of Nassau on New Providence Island in the Bahamas, Thursday Aug. 25, 2011. 
CONNECTICUT— Forecasters predict Irene to make landfall on Sunday. They say they are unable to determine where it would hit land first because forecasts show that could be anywhere between New Jersey and Cape Cod.— Hurricane warnings have not been issued.— Mandatory evacuations have not been ordered.— Last hurricane to hit was Bob in 1991.DELAWARE— Forecasters predict Irene to make landfall 7 a.m. Sunday at Rehoboth and Bethany beaches.— No watches or warnings.— Mandatory evacuations ordered for visitors to coastal areas.— Governor declared emergency.— Last hurricane to hit was Floyd in 1999.— State will open shelters in all three counties on Friday.MAINE— Forecasters predict Irene to reach northern New England Sunday night.— Heavy rain expected to start Saturday night. Potential for flooding rains and gusty winds.— No evacuations planned since path uncertain.— Lobstermen began moving their fishing gear farther offshore to avoid damage amid expectations of 30-foot seas.MARYLAND— Forecasters predict Irene to make landfall early Sunday near Ocean City.— Hurricane watch Ocean City; tropical storm warning for Baltimore to Eastern Shore to D.C. suburbs.— Mandatory evacuations ordered for Ocean City.— Governor declared emergency.— Last hurricane to hit was Floyd in 1999— Assateague State Park closing until Wednesday.MASSACHUSETTS— Forecasters predict Irene to make landfall in Massachusetts on Sunday. They say they are unable to determine where it would hit land first because forecasts show that could be anywhere between New Jersey and Cape Cod.— Hurricane warnings have not been issued in the state.— Mandatory evacuations have not been ordered.— Last hurricane to hit was Bob in 1991.— Red Cross is pre-positioning emergency response vehicles, mobilizing trained disaster workers and preparing supplies in case they are needed.— Boston's largest homeless shelter is also beginning to warn people living in the streets about the approaching hurricane. Pine Street Inn is also preparing to open its doors around the clock from Saturday afternoon through Monday, and it is strongly urging the homeless to come in for safety.NEW HAMPSHIRE— Forecasters predict Irene to reach northern New England Sunday night.— Heavy rain expected to start Saturday night. Potential for flooding rains and gusty winds.— No evacuations planned since path uncertain.— Governor directed state Emergency Operations Center to be opened.— The Red Cross plans to open four shelters.— Organizers of the annual Hampton Beach Talent Competition condensed the three-night schedule to two, telling competitors "it's one song for all the marbles."NEW JERSEY— Forecasters predict Irene to make landfall by 10 a.m. Sunday near Cape May.— Hurricane watch in effect for nine counties.— Mandatory evacuations ordered for Cape May County.— Governor declared emergency for the state.— Last hurricane to directly hit the state was remnants of Hurricane Floyd in 1999, which caused major flooding inland.— Atlantic City casinos began canceling bus trips as gamblers scrapped reservations.NEW YORK— Forecasters predict Irene to make landfall early Sunday morning in the eastern part of Queens, New York City, as a Category 1 storm.— No watches or warnings.— New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg ordered the evacuation of nursing homes and hospitals located in low-lying coastal areas, such as Battery Park City in lower Manhattan, Coney Island in Brooklyn and Far Rockaway in Queens, beginning Friday.— The governor declared a state of emergency and the state's Office of Emergency Management has increased staffing in its underground bunker.— Last hurricane to hit was Hurricane Gloria in 1985 on Long Island as a Category 2 storm with winds gusts of up to 100 mph. Since then, numerous remnants of hurricanes that have struck the state.— Officials expect to shut down the city's entire transit system at some point Saturday afternoon.NORTH CAROLINA— Forecasters predict Irene to make landfall Saturday afternoon near Morehead City. Early storm surge prediction of 7 to 9 feet along Outer Banks and northern coast.— Hurricane warning for entire coast.— Governor and president declared emergency for the state.— Evacuations ordered for all of the Outer Banks as well as inland Currituck County, Dare County, Hyde County and low-lying areas of Beaufort County— Last hurricane to hit was Isabel in 2003.— The Red Cross is opening eight shelters for people who need them. More shelters are expected to open Friday.PENNSYLVANIA— Forecasters predict Irene to make landfall on Sunday. They said it is too soon to tell where the hurricane would make landfall in Pennsylvania because the track of the storm is uncertain.— Hurricane warnings have not been issued.— Mandatory evacuations have not been ordered.— Last hurricane to hit was Floyd in 1999.— A flood watch was issued for 10 eastern Pennsylvania counties from Saturday afternoon until Sunday evening with five to 10 inches of rain possible.RHODE ISLAND— Forecasters predict Irene to make landfall on Sunday. They say they are unable to determine where it would hit land first because forecasts show that could be anywhere between New Jersey and Cape Cod.— No hurricane warnings or watches.— No mandatory evacuations.— Last hurricane to hit was Bob in 1991, which made landfall twice.SOUTH CAROLINA— Forecaster predict Irene to be about 100 miles east of Myrtle Beach early Saturday morning.— Tropical storm warnings issued from Edisto Island north to North Carolina state line.— No mandatory evacuations ordered.— Last hurricane to hit was Charley in 2004.— 1-2 inches of rain and winds up to 50 mph predicted in Myrtle Beach area; 1/2 inch of rain and winds gusting up to 35 mph expected near Charleston.VERMONT— Forecasters predict Irene to reach northern New England Sunday night.— Heavy rain expected to start Saturday night. Potential for flooding rains and gusty winds.— No evacuations planned since path uncertain.— Parts of the state hard-hit by Memorial Day weekend flash flooding were bracing for another round.VIRGINIA— Forecasters predict Irene to make landfall at 2 a.m. Sunday.— Hurricane watch for coast.— Mandatory evacuations ordered for the Sandbridge section of Virginia Beach, a barrier island dotted with rentals and for low-lying areas of Norfolk.— Governor declared emergency.— Last hurricane to hit the state was Hurricane Isabel in 2003.— The cities of Norfolk and Virginia beach are opening shelters on Friday.— The Navy ordered the Second Fleet out to sea to escape the storm.WASHINGTON, D.C.— Forecasters predict Irene to make landfall: Won't make landfall in DC.— Tropical storm watch.— No mandatory evacuations ordered.— Last hurricane to hit was Hazel in 1954.— Approach of hurricane forced postponement of Sunday's dedication of Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial.
AP/Yahoonews





6.8-magnitude earthquake hits northern Peru, Brazil-Amazon.


Posted: 2011-08-25 20:32:06 UTC+05:30

Wednesday Aug. 24, 2011 3:06 PM ET CTV

People stand outside after evacuating buildings due to an earthquake in Trujillo, Peru, on Wednesday, Aug. 24, 2011.
A 6.8-magnitude earthquake shook northern Peru early Wednesday afternoon local time, the U.S. Geological Society reported.

There was a strong, but deep tremor that rumbled through a jungle region just after 12:40 p.m. in northern Peru near Brazil, said the USGS.

There have been no immediate reports about serious damage or injuries in the region.

The quake, which originated just north of the jungle city of Pulcallpa, sent mild rumbling through the country's capital of Lima.

The Colorado-based USGS said the quake happened 150 kilometres underground.

According to David Eaton, a geophysics professor at the University of Calgary, the depth of an earthquake directly affects how many people will feel the tremors.

"The shallower the event the more strongly it shakes the local area," Eaton told CTV's Canada AM on Wednesday morning, referring to a 5.8-magnitude quake that shook North America's East Coast a day before.

By comparison, the earthquake that occurred on the East Coast on Tuesday occurred six kilometres underground. With files from The Associated Press


A strong 6.5 Richterearthquake struck at 11:18 a.m. local  time
--
A POWERFUL 6.8-magnitude earthquake shook the Andean nation of Peru overnight with its epicentre some 560km northeast of the capital Lima.

Seismologists from the US Geological Survey (USGS) said the epicentre of the quake was 82km north of the town of Puccalpa, in eastern Peru near the Brazilian border.



There were no immediate reports of damage or casualties and the US government's warning centre said no destructive tsunami was created.

Landslide in Peru - image courtesy: La Republica August 24,2011

On August 15, 2007, an earthquake of magnitude 7.9 devastated the province of Ica, just south of Lima, killing some 600 people and causing extensive damage to area buildings and infrastructure.

In 2009, more than 140 earthquakes with magnitudes of 4.0 and above were felt in Peru, located in a region that geologists call the Pacific Ring of Fire due to its intense seismic activity. heraldsun

http://earthquake.usgs.gov/earthquakes/recenteqsww/






The Food Daily


Posted: 2011-08-25 12:10:06 UTC+05:30
M... AnchorNECCCorruption in food.One of the world’s ‘most feared’ pests found in Chicago, from India.archbhoo-india.blogspot.com - One of the world's "most feared" pests was discovered on American soil. The Khapra beetle, in larva stage, was identified by customs officials last week in a 10-pound bag of rice that came from Ind... archbhoo
http://paper.li/GoodBlogPosts1/1309659385The Food Daily:

'via Blog this'





Corruption in food.One of the world’s ‘most feared’ pests found in Chicago, from India.


Posted: 2011-08-25 10:42:09 UTC+05:30

One of the world's "most feared" pests was discovered on American soil. The Khapra beetle, in larva stage, was identified by customs officials last week in a 10-pound bag of rice that came from India.


In a press release, Customs and Border Protection described the bug as "one of the world's most tenacious and destructive stored-produce pests because of its ability to damage grain."
The beetles originated in South Asia but have invaded parts of northern Africa, the Middle East, and even Europe, Asia and South Africa.

The Khapra beetle first invaded California in 1953. The infestation was not eradicated until 1966, at a cost of $15 million.

Customs specialists have intercepted the beetle 100 times this year, "compared to three to six per year in 2005 and 2006, and averaging about 15 per year from 2007 to 2009," the press release says.

The Baltimore Sun reports that grain shipments do not even require a live beetle for the entire supply to be rejected. No other species is treated this way.

Despite the increase in the number stopped at the border, the Khapra beetle has not made it into the American grain supply. By Claudine Zap Yahoo news.--
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pest_(organism)
A pest is an animal which is detrimental to humans or human concerns. It is a loosely defined term, often overlapping with the related terms vermin, weeds, parasitesand pathogens. In its broadest sense, a pest is a competitor of humanity.!!!





Hurricane-USA, Evacuations begin on tiny NC island ahead of Irene.


Posted: 2011-08-24 20:28:57 UTC+05:30
HATTERAS, N.C. (AP) — Evacuations began on a tiny barrier island off North Carolina as Hurricane Irene strengthened to a major Category 3 storm over the Bahamas on Wednesday with the East Coast in its sights.


Irene's maximum sustained winds increased to near 115 mph (185 kph) with additional strengthening forecast, the U.S. National Hurricane Center in Miami said.


The evacuation in North Carolina was a test of whether people in the crosshairs of the first major hurricane along the East Coast in years would heed orders to get out of the way.


The first ferry to leave Ocracoke Island arrived just before 5:30 a.m. in nearby Hatteras with around a dozen cars on board.



Related: What is the Saffir-Simpson wind scale?


It won't be easy to get thousands of people off Ocracoke Island, which is accessible only by boat. The 16-mile-long barrier island is home to about 800 year-round residents and a tourist population that swells into the thousands when vacationers rent rooms and cottages. Tourists were told to evacuate Wednesday. Island residents were told to get out on Thursday.


It wasn't clear how many people on the first arriving ferry Wednesday morning were tourists, but the first two cars to drive off it had New York and New Jersey plates.


Getting off the next ferry about an hour later was a family that included newlywed Jennifer Baharek, 23, of Torrington, Conn. She and her husband, Andrew, were married Monday and planned to spend their honeymoon on the island.


"We just got to spend one day on the beach and then we went to bed early to get up for the evacuation," she said.

State workers questioned people who tried taking the ferry to the island turned a few cars around. In addition to the ferry line to Hatteras, there were two other ferry lines that went to and from the island.

Related: How to prepare for a hurricane

Federal officials have warned Irene could cause flooding, power outages or worse all along the East Coast as far north as Maine, even if it stays offshore. The projected path has gradually shifted to the east and Irene could make landfall anywhere from South Carolina to Massachusetts over the weekend.

Speaking Wednesday on ABC's "Good Morning America," Craig Fugate, head of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, said people as far north as New England should be ready for the storm. When asked about concerns preparing the Northeast for a hurricane, which is uncommon in that part of the country, Fugate cited Tuesday's earthquake that rattled the East Coast.

"It's a reminder that we don't always get to pick the next disaster," Fugate said.

In North Carolina, the state-run ferry service off Ocracoke Island would be free during the evacuation, but no reservations were allowed. Boats can carry no more than 50 vehicles at a time.

The island is part of North Carolina's Outer Banks, a roughly 200-mile stretch of fragile barrier islands off the state's coast. Pristine beaches and wild mustangs attract thousands of tourists each year. Aside from Ocracoke, the other islands are accessible by bridges to the mainland and ferries. The limited access can make the evacuation particularly tense.The Sun News , Steve Jessmore - Resort landscaping manager Chris Jaeger fills his truck and ten five-gallon gas containers Tuesday morning in Garden City, S.C., Tuesday Aug. 23, 2011. Jaeger said they gassed up their vehicles Monday and just want to be prepared in case Hurricane Irene hits the Myrtle Beach, S.C. area. (AP Photo/The Sun News , Steve Jessmore)
All the barrier islands have the geographic weakness of jutting out into the Atlantic like the side-view mirror of a car, a location that's frequently been in the path of destructive storms over the decades.

Many remember 1999's Hurricane Floyd, which made landfall as a Category 2 and caused a storm surge that wiped out scores of houses and other properties on the Outer Banks.

As of 8 a.m. EDT Wednesday, Irene was centered about 335 miles (540 kilometers) southeast of Nassau in the Bahamas and was moving west-northwest near 9 mph (15 kph).

It had already wrought destruction across the Caribbean, giving a glimpse of what the storm might bring to the Eastern Seaboard. In Puerto Rico, tens of thousands were without power, and one woman died after trying to cross a swollen river in her car. At least hundreds were displaced by flooding in the Dominican Republic, forced to take refuge in schools and churches.

Related: Hurricane formation, behavior

Forecasters warned it could get worse: The storm was likely to strengthen into a strong Category 3 hurricane with winds as high as 125 mph (201 kph). Irene could crawl up the coast Sunday toward the Northeast region, where residents aren't accustomed to such storms.

It's been more seven years since a major hurricane, considered a Category 3 with winds of at least 111 mph (179 kph), hit the East Coast. Hurricane Jeanne came ashore on Florida's east coast in 2004.

On North Carolina's mainland, residents who have weathered years of storms took notice. People flocked to gas stations and stores Tuesday to stock up on supplies like gasoline for generators, plywood for boarding up windows, flashlights, batteries and drinking water.

In the coastal city of Wilmington, Tommy Early watched Tuesday as customers came in to his Shell service station to prepare. Irene was the main topic of conversation there.

The last hurricane to hit the U.S. was Ike in 2008. The last Category 3 or higher to hit the Carolinas was Bonnie in 1998, but caused less damage than other memorable hurricanes: Hugo in 1989, Floyd in 1999 and Isabel in 2003.

Though a Category 2, Isabel cut a new inlet through Hatteras Island and killed 33 people.


At Craft American Hardware at Wrightsville Beach, Don Korman said he had placed a big order set to arrive Wednesday: Batteries, lanterns, tarps and shutter supplies.

"People are watching the TV, but they usually come by a few days before," he said. "If it looks like it's coming like this, you can run out of stock really quick."

Korman, though, plans to be ready even for 11th-hour supply trips: the store is ready to plywood its windows and run off generator power until it becomes unsafe or unwise to keep the doors open.

"We won't close until the last minute," he said.

Most locals were heeding the warnings and getting ready for the storm, though few seemed panicked.

"Water, batteries, flashlights and now I'm going to get my grocery shopping done," said Sally Godwin, carrying two large jugs of fresh water out of Korman's store with her. "I live at the beach, and they always evacuate it the day before. I have to make sure all my little stuff's taken care of."

___

Associated Press writers Tom Breen in Wilmington, N.C., and Michael Biesecker in Raleigh, N.C., contributed to this report.





Earthquake rocks Washington area. Why Virginia Quake Shook Entire Coast


Posted: 2011-08-24 19:53:59 UTC+05:30

Patrick Semansky - A worker with Baltimore Gas and Electric walks past a square where workers wait for word to re-enter their office buildings after an earthquake was felt in Baltimore on Tuesday, Aug. 23, 2011. Downtown office buildings were cleared and workers were waiting for clearance to re-enter. (AP Photo/Patrick Semansky) The quake that hit the East Coast on Tuesday afternoon was notable, but not unprecedented, for the eastern half of the country, geoscientists say.
UPDATES magnitude; Map locates the epicenter of an earthquake in Virginia

Additionally, the shaking was felt over such a large area — as far south as Atlanta and as far north as Ontario, according to eyewitness reports — largely because the eastern part of the North American continent is different than the West Coast, where quakes are more common. [Album: The Great San Francisco Earthquake]

Office workers gather on a sidewalk after their building was evacuated following an earthquake in New York on Tuesday, Aug. 23, 2011. The 5.9 magnitude earthquake centered northwest of Richmond, Va., shook the much of the east coast from Washington, D.C., to New York City and Rhode Island. (AP Photo/Mark Lennihan)

"The crust is different in the east than in the west," United States Geological Survey (USGS) earthquake geologist David Schwartz told LiveScience. "It's older and colder and denser, and as a result, seismic waves travel much farther in the east than in the west."

Additionally, said Andy Frassetto of the Incorporated Research Institutions for Seismology, the sediments along the east coast can make quakes feel stronger. 

"The sediments of the coastal plain along the eastern seaboard can trap waves as they propagate and produce a minor amplification of the shaking," Frassetto told LiveScience.

A much more extreme version of this effect occurred during theearthquake that hit Christchurch, New Zealand, this year, Frassetto said.

Faults that rupture east of the Rockies usually create quakes felt over more than 10 times the area than those west of the mountains, according to the USGS. A magnitude-5.5 quake in the Eastern U.S. can usually be felt as far as 300 miles (500 km) away.

Latest Shaking

According to the USGS, the 5.8-magnitude quake struck at 1:51 p.m. Eastern Time. The epicenter was 5 miles (8 kilometers) from Mineral, Va., and 84 miles (135 kilometers) away from Washington, D.C. Despite the distance, the Pentagon, the Capitol and other buildings were evacuated. [Read: Large Earthquake Could Strike New York City]

The quake was only about 3.7 miles (6 km) deep, according to the USGS. That's typical for the eastern U.S., Frassetto said. In the east, he said, quakes usually originate in the upper part of the crust.

In contrast, subduction zones such as the Pacific Ring of Fire, where one plate is being pushed under another, produce very deep quakes — sometimes 435 miles (700 km) down, Frassetto said. These super-deep quakes may not even be felt on the surface.

A federal court officer instructs court personnel during an evacuation of the Federal Court Building in New York, following an 5.9 magnitude earthquake that struck the East Coast of the United States, August 23, 2011. REUTERS/Brendan McDermid
---
Unusual earthquake: Strong tremor along East Coast -AP

Quakes in the east

Since Virginia lies in the middle of a continental plate, the state doesn't generally experience large-magnitude earthquakes like those that rattle Los Angeles, Alaska, Haiti, Japan and Chile (or any other areas on the edge of a tectonic plate), according to the USGS. 

Even so, since 1977, there have been about 200 earthquakes in Virginia. The last "big one" in Virginia occurred on May 31, 1897, in Pearisburg; it was a 5.8-magnitude temblor that, in addition to cracking walls and toppling chimneys, reportedly caused a judge in the courthouse there to adjourn a trial, jumping over a railing and fleeing outside, according to the USGS. 

Virginia is classified as a "moderate" seismic risk, with a 10-20 percent chance of experiencing a 4.75-magnitude earthquake (in quakes above 4.5, buildings begin to fall), the USGS said. Alaska and California take the first and second spots for the most earthquakes in the U.S., respectively, though California experiences more damaging earthquakes due to its greater population and extensive infrastructure.

There is a history of damaging quakes in the eastern United States, however. A destructive quake hit Charleston, S.C., in 1886, damaging thousands of buildings. Its magnitude was probably near 7.0 on the Richter scale. And in 1755, a quake with around a 6.0 magnitude struck off the coast of Massachusetts.

You can follow LiveScience senior writer Stephanie Pappas on Twitter @sipappas. Follow LiveScience for the latest in science news and discoveries on Twitter @livescience and on Facebook.

---

WASHINGTON (AP) — A 5.8 magnitude earthquake centered northwest of Richmond, Va., shook much of Washington, D.C., and was felt as far north as Rhode Island, New York City and Martha's Vineyard, Mass., where President Barack Obama is vacationing.

The U.S. Geological Survey said the earthquake was half a mile deep. Shaking was felt at the White House and all over the East Coast, as far south as Chapel Hill, N.C. Parts of the Pentagon, White House and Capitol were evacuated. There were no immediate reports of injuries.(See the 13 best tweets about the earthquake.) 


Office workers gather on a sidewalk in Washington on Aug. 23, 2011, moments after a 5.9-magnitude tremor shook the nation's capitol. The earthquake, which was centered northwest of Richmond, Va., was felt as far north as Rhode Island and New York City.J. Scott Applewhite / AP

It was centered near Louisa, Va., which is northwest of Richmond and south of Washington. 

Obama and many of the nation's leaders were out of town on August vacation when the quake struck at 1:51 p.m. EDT. The shaking was felt on the Martha's Vineyard golf course as Obama was just starting a round.

The East Coast gets earthquakes, but usually smaller ones and is less prepared than California or Alaska for shaking.

At Reagan National Airport outside Washington, ceiling tiles fell during a few seconds of shaking. Authorities announced it was an earthquake and all flights were put on hold.

At the Pentagon in northern Virginia, a low rumbling built and built to the point that the building was shaking. People ran into the corridors of the government's biggest building and as the shaking continued there were shouts of "Evacuate! Evacuate!"

In New York, the 26-story federal courthouse in lower Manhattan began swaying and hundreds of people were seen leaving the building. Court officers weren't letting people back in.

The quake came a day after an earthquake in Colorado toppled groceries off shelves and caused minor damage to homes in the southern part of the state and in northern New Mexico. No injuries were reported as aftershocks continued Tuesday.

In Charleston, W.Va., hundreds of workers left the state Capitol building and employees at other downtown office buildings were asked to leave temporarily.

"The whole building shook," said Jennifer Bundy, a spokeswoman for the state Supreme Court. "You could feel two different shakes. Everybody just kind of came out on their own."

In Ohio, where office buildings swayed in Columbus and Cincinnati and the press box at the Cleveland Indians' Progressive Field shook. At least one building near the Statehouse was evacuated in downtown Columbus.

In downtown Baltimore, the quake sent office workers into the streets, where lamp posts swayed slightly as they called family and friends to check in.

Social media site Twitter lit up with reports of the earthquake from people using the site up and down the U.S. eastern seaboard.

"People pouring out of buildings and onto the sidewalks and Into Farragut Park in downtown DC...," tweeted Republican strategist Kevin Madden.

"did you feel earthquake in ny? It started in richmond va!" tweeted Arianna Huffington, president and editor-in-chief of the Huffington Post Media Group.

Missouri Sen. Claire McCaskill tweeted that her staff in Washington was in an "emergency location. Hope everyone is ok."

John Gurlach, air traffic controller at the Morgantown Municipal Airport was in a 40-foot-tall tower when the earth trembled.

"There were two of us looking at each other saying, 'What's that?'" he said, even as a commuter plane was landing. "It was noticeably shaking. It felt like a B-52 unloading."

Immediately, the phone rang from the nearest airport in Clarksburg, and a computer began spitting out green strips of paper — alerts from other airports in New York and Washington issuing ground stops "due to earthquake." times US--COVERING GROUND: The August 23 earthquake, which had an epicenter in central Virginia, was felt all the way up in New York City, where Scientific American's offices were temporarily evacuated.Image: U.S. Geological Survey.


NEW YORK CITY—A magnitude 5.8earthquake that shook parts of the mid-Atlantic U.S. and New England Tuesday afternoon sent workers and residents streaming outdoors. In Lower Manhattan, surrounding the Scientific American office, vehicle traffic quickly came to a standstill—with New York Police Department officers ordering drivers to back their vehicles out of the Holland Tunnel. People streamed out onto the sidewalks and into neighborhood cafes as buildings were evacuated as a precautionary measure.

Officials in Washington, D.C., fewer than 160 kilometers from the quake's epicenter near Mineral, Va., closed all national monuments. And many office buildings in the nation's capital remained closed to business as of Tuesday afternoon. 

Most U.S. quakes occur in Alaska and California, but the East Coast is no stranger to temblors, with fault lines running throughout the area. The U.S. Geological Survey, however, had rated the probability of a quake larger than magnitude 5.7 occurring in the Richmond, Va., area in the next 100 years as less than 20 percent. 

The Virginia quake followed a rare magnitude 5.3 rattler in southern Colorado. 

POST QUAKE CALM: Workers gathered on a side street after being evacuated from a 17-story office building on Varick Street in Manhattan. Katherine Harmon.
Here are images from the area near our office, adjacent to an entrance to the Holland Tunnel in Lower Manhattan, taken within 10 minutes of the Virginia quake. 





FeedBurner delivers the world's subscriptions wherever they need to go. Publish a feed for text or podcasting? 
You should try FeedBurner today.


