World Examiner News



























































World Examiner News



GET THE NEWS BEHIND THE NEWS.




















The News Behind The News


Loading...













Pages


Home
COMET ELENIN - GET THE FACTS (Updated Weekly)
SKY ANOMALIES - Links To New Video Added Weekly
DUTCHSINSE Explains HAARP RINGS - Youtube Video an...
VIDEOS and LINKS on H.A.A.R.P., Chem-Trails, and M...
HAARP As A DIRECT ENERGY WEAPON - MUST SEE VIDEO
CHECK OUT OUR INVESTIGATIVE JOURNAL HERE
TOM BEARDEN, Former Army War Games Expert, On Scal...
HAVING TROUBLE SHARING THESE POSTS ON FACEBOOK?
Earth and Space Events: REAL TIME MONITORING












Today's Most Popular Headlines

↑ Grab this Headline Animator













































































FOLLOW THIS BLOG ON FACEBOOK - Just Click and "Like"!













EMAIL OTHERS ABOUT THIS BLOG
















Monday, September 5, 2011





PINE GAP, AUSTRALIA AND ITS MANY MILITARY AND TECHNOLOGICAL SECRETS: What Your Governments Are Not Telling You That You Really Ought To Know







IS THERE ALIEN TECHNOLOGY AT PINE GAP? OR MAYBE JUST "ALIEN-LIKE"?!?


Pine Gap, near Alice Springs, employs nearly 1,000 people, mainly from the Central Intelligence Agency and the National Reconnaissance Office. Originally code-named MERINO, it is the ground station for a satellite network that intercepts telephone, radio, data links, and other communications around the world. The facility currently includes a dozen radomes, a 5,600 square meter computer room, and 20-odd service and support buildings.


SECRET TECHNOLOGY AT PINE GAP 

In the book Cosmic Conspiracy by Stan Deyo, he writes that Pine Gap is 12 miles from the dead centre of Australia and has been drilled down 5.3 miles. This bore could be used as an underground antenna for VLF electricity broadcasts. He says as it is supposed to be involved in both upper atmospheric sub-surface research, the 'bore antenna' could be used to tune a gigantic 'standing wave' field around the entire planet.

This system could be tuned to set up a resonating electric field around the planet to an altitude of 250 miles. The book says that there are rumors saying that Pine Gap has a very large nuclear facility used to power its enormous 'transceiver'. More rumors say also high-voltage high-energy plasma accelerators possibly for power generation, a 'death ray' or plasma cannon.

Dr. Jean Francois Gille writes that the US base at West Cape, near Exmouth Gulf in Western Australia has an older type of the transceiver used at Pine Gap which is used to send electric current to submerged US submarines who trail a wire antenna. It is known that electric currents transmitted in this way are referred to as plasmo-dynamic cells.

Stan Deyo continues that a 1973 press release said that Pine Gap and its sister station in Guam (Micronesia in the Pacific) supported photographic satellites. Each weighed 11 tons, was 50 feet long by 10 feet wide which could scan the entire surface of the earth every 24 hours, varying its altitude from 100-200 miles for 'close-ups'. The pictures were so sharp they could show an object 12 inches wide. They could also use infra-red sensors. 


The white cylindrical shaped object with a bright white halo around its center moved towards the base reducing altitude and stopped, rocking up and down for the whole duration. Blue light beams started flashing between all five objects and the ground. The gold light beam again emanated from the area of the radomes.

This time the small objects began to rotate around the beam and ascend vertically as if they were examining it. The four objects then returned spiraling down the beam. They then all sped off in a few seconds. Seven more UFO’s were seen over the next few days. On another occasion campers saw a bright silver ball of white light flickering, then other white lights grouped with it and they moved away quickly.

Author and researcher, Stan Deyo, says the five mile deep bore at Pine Gap could be used as an underground antenna for VLF electricity broadcasts. Perhaps involved in both upper atmospheric sub-surface research, the .bore antenna. could be used to tune a gigantic .standing wave. field around the entire planet. This system could be tuned to set up a resonating electric field around the planet to an altitude of 250 miles. Pine Gap may have a very large nuclear facility used to power its enormous transceiver.

Also possibly a high-voltage high-energy plasma accelerator for power generation, a .death ray. or plasma cannon. Deyo said that Pine Gap and its sister station in Guam supported photographic satellites. Each weighed 11 tons, was 50 feet long by 10 feet wide which could scan the entire surface of the earth every 24 hours, varying its altitude from 100-200 miles for .close-ups.. The pictures could show an twelve inch object and use infra-red sensors.

NIKOLA TESLA'S TECHNOLOGY AND PINE GAP


In 1899, Nikola Tesla invented a process of sending wireless currents through the globe, by transmitting energy in the form of standing waves in the earth's crust and upper atmosphere. He could transmit almost unlimited amounts of energy to any place on the globe. US has a very low-frequency transmitter at the South Pole which is similar to Tesla's process, except that it can be tuned to a frequency of 7 Hz.

Super harmonics of this frequency have been used by both the US Navy in Northwest Cape in Australia and at Pine Gap. The Northwest cape transmitter's antipode is in the middle of the Bermuda Triangle and Pine Gap's antipode is very near the Tropic of Capricorn in the center of the Atlantic Ocean's great dividing range.

Tesla's observation was that sending a ball of electric fluid around the planet results in splash rings meeting at the antipode of the initial thrust, then instead of meeting head on, they produce a wave front which spirals back to the source like a spinning smoke ring of energy. Deyo says this returning wave front only partially interacts with the next oncoming wave from the source.

THE SECRET PROJECTS SUSPECTED TO BE GOING ON AT PINE GAP:

AURORA CRAFT


Author Tim Swartz has covered a lot of this information in this in his 2 books, Evil Agenda of the Secret Government - Exposing Project Paperclip and the Underground UFO Bases of Hitler's Elite Scientific Corps and in Secret Black Projects of the NWO: Anti-Gravity UFOs, Black Helicopters and Mysterious Flying Triangles.

From other sources, it is stated that former Nazi scientists began work on the hypersonic aircraft called Aurora at Area 51 in Nevada, where they back-engineered crashed UFOs. Aurora aircraft can fly at 8,000 miles an hour, more than 6 times the speed of sound and have been traced coming from Pine Gap in Australia, and flying past southern California to Area 51 at night, leaving behind sonic quakes.

These Aurora aircraft have also been seen landing at night at RAF Machrihanish, Scotland to refuel. They then go over the North Pole back to Area 51. They also stop at an atoll in the Pacific. The speed makes it invulnerable to missiles. They refuel with liquid methane in mid-air. The craft is triangular with a diamond shaped set of 4 lights.

The Aurora research has moved to Pine Gap and it has been also said that a new area for Area 51 has been located in Utah.

PINE GAP FOR THE ELITE AFTER THE STOCK MARKET CRASH

Dr. Gille writes that several times, locals have seen white disks about 30’ in diameter being unloaded from large US cargo planes at the airports serving Pine Gap with the USAF emblem on them. It seems likely that disks are assembled and based at Pine Gap because many disks seen at night would confirm this. Much furniture has been delivered by plane from the United States. The locals also say that an enormous amount of food is stocked in warehouses of what could well be a true multi-leveled underground city.

Dr Gille writes further that shares put on the market at the same time will cause a stock market crash of such magnitude that all the national economies of the West will collapse at the same time. Cash will worthless and the risks of a global confrontation (planned!) will be high.

The purpose of Pine Gap and other underground bases purpose will become obvious. If a global confrontation is going to break out, those bases will serve as a place of safety for the politicians and their staff, as well as the international financiers, their families and friends.

WHAT ELSE IS AT PINE GAP?

Stan Deyo also asks if Pine Gap could be a man-made city of multiple levels, used to shelter key U.S. personnel in the event of some disaster. Among some of the major contractors and suppliers for Pine Gap have been Collins Radio, McMahon Construction, L.T.V. aero-space company, a conglomerate of electronics and aircraft manufacturing subsidiaries and I.B.M.

Stan says it is rumored that there are super IBM computer systems on a floating platform, 'down the well' underneath the facility. IBM has mammoth computers which can recognize both voice and visual patterns. Their main memory sizes are said to be in excess of 2,000,000,000 bytes.

The first two antennas for controlling and communicating with satellites were constructed in 1966-67. Pine Gap became operational in 1970. In 1974 unauthorized photos and other information from inside the faculty are reported to have been sold to Russia. In 1991, Pine Gap was instrumental in tracking Iraqi SCUD missiles, with satellite imagery tracking the Iraqi troops.

By 1996, witnesses saw a triangular craft crash or land rapidly at an area west of Pine Gap. Diane Harrison of the Australasian Ufologist magazine wrote a good description of Pine Gap and reports there are now about 18 satellite control antennas, making it one of the largest satellite control stations in the world for satellites parked in fixed orbits above the equator.

The most recent satellites are 300 feet diameter. They intercept signals in the VHF, UHF and millimeter wave frequency bands. Within that frequency there are four categories of signals. The first category monitors signals transmitted in the course of advanced weapons development, particularly ballistic missiles.

The first satellites were designed for this and monitored Russian missile development programs and now monitors other countries. The newer satellites are now primarily for the Soviet Union. This intelligence is shared.

THE TECHNOLOGICAL ACHIEVEMENTS OF PINE GAP

The second category monitors signals from large radars, including ones associated with anti-ballistic missile fields, air defense radars, radars on ships.

Analysis of this tells lot about the capabilities of those anti-missile and antiaircraft systems in the various air defense fields around the globe. Thirdly intercepting the communications of other satellite systems, i.e. communications which are going up from ground to communication satellites which are also based in fixed orbits. Listening satellites parked close to the communications satellites.

Finally they monitor a wide range of other microwave emissions on the earth's surface including: long distance phone calls transmitted via terrestrial microwave circuits enabling them to monitor military, political and government agencies or private individuals. Diane says that a satellite can be parked over the interior of a country and intercept the microwave emissions coming from it.

The satellites are under the control of the CIA, who in turn answer to the NRO (National Reconnaissance Office). There are 8 large radomes, that cover the antenna arrays which keeps sand etc away and conceal the antenna's position from enemy spy satellites. There are a wide range of communication devices: HF radio, underground cable, Telstra telephone and telex, 2 satellites communication terminals to occupy the on average 1,200 staff.

The staff have to wear color coded ID to match the color ribbons running along the walls. US Military Airlift Command carry thousands of tapes home for further study and send parts and supplies twice weekly. There are direct links from Pine Gap to the US bases in the Philippines, Guam, Krugerdorp South Africa and the Amundsen-Scott base at the South Pole.

THE TOP BRASS AT PINE GAP

The computer room is almost 5,600 meters and the operators use headsets to communicate. Within the central operations building at Pine Gap people are keeping the satellite and its antenna focused on the signals they are intercepting. Then other staff process the enormous volume of interpreted signals. Then the signals are analyzed for intelligence data. Up until 1980, Australians were not allowed access to the voice intercepts, coming into the signal analysis section. But now they have full access to all areas except the cryptographic room, officially anyway.

Univac computers encrypt transmissions, including voices and these go to Redondo Beach in California. About 25 to 30 messages are sent from Pine Gap each day to US and about half go to the CIA headquarters in Langley Virginia. Occasionally data is sent directly to the NRO Headquarters in the Pentagon, or to the NSA headquarters at Fort Meade Maryland.

Diane Harrison also reveals that there is a group called the Joint Reconnaissance Schedule committee, who meet each morning to decide who is going to be listened to for the next 24 hours to focus the antennas on the satellites. e.g. who is doing a missile test, or if a political crisis occurs somewhere. Australians are involved in this.

In the 90.s, there has been a need to collect political intelligence on allies and to also download economic intelligence from these countries. In a reprint from Conspiracy Nation Alan Howard wrote that Pine Gap has many, many levels below the basement, like the Pentagon and the White House.

MAIN FRAMES ALL OVER GATHERING DATA ON CITIZENS

The computer room at Pine Gap, when new, had one of the biggest computer rooms in the world; it has now tripled in size. There are said to be over 1,000 staff. A similar station to Pine Gap is located in South Africa with 1,200 staff. Like Pine Gap, is also linked to another VLF station at the South Pole.

Dr Gille tells us that Pine Gap has enormous computers connected to US, Krugersdorp South Africa, Guam, Canberra, Antarctica US base counterparts, which collects information from these countries, about finance, technology, and everything about the average citizen.

The Amundsen-Scott base at the South Pole is located on a sensitive magnetic spot of our planet, in that it holds exactly the same assets as Pine Gap, and that all the information about most of the average citizens of Western Europe is stored there in memory banks tens of meters under the icepack.

Canberra computers are connected to all banks, every post office, all telephones, all police stations and customs houses, every arrival and departure desk for air or sea travelers and to the other data centers collecting data on private citizens in the United States and Europe.

Peter Sawyer, a former high-ranking Australian civil servant. Also collaborates that all data about every citizen of the Western World ends up being stored. All financial, economic, political and military information. The president of the Rockefeller Foundation supervised, in person, the construction of 20 luxury residences in Canberra, which is meant to accommodate the world government-to-be. The 20 luxury residences will be allocated to the different foreign members of that government.

The Australian premier, Bob Hawk, was a Rhodes scholar, and as such, has worked toward the setting up of a One World Government.

STAY TUNED FOR PART TWO OF THIS ARTICLE: PINE GAP, AUSTRALIA AND THE FAKE ALIEN INVASION KNOWN AS "NASA PROJECT BLUE BEAM". - Rob Mann

Article includes sourced material from the following sites: http://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/sociopolitica/sociopol_pinegap08.htm
http://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/sociopolitica/fakesecondcoming/fakesecondcoming08.htm




Posted by
Rob Mann


at
12:18 PM


0
comments















Email This

BlogThis!

Share to Twitter

Share to Facebook

Share to Google Buzz




Labels:
Above Top Secret Technology,
Advanced,
Aliens,
Aurora,
Australia,
Black Ops,
Computer,
Craft,
Elite,
Military,
One World Government,
Pine Gap,
Technology,
Tesla






Reactions: 










Saturday, September 3, 2011





The Shadowy Deck Of Cards That Seem To Have Predictive Powers: Could The Elite Be Playing Some Sort Of A PsyOps "Game" With Us?








Ever Heard About The ‘Illuminati' Card Game From 1995?

If not, I invite you to take a look at the card below, and then consider the Japan Earthquake / Tsunami / Nuclear Catastrophe: The Illuminati Card Game suggests that the Japan Earthquake was possibly pre-planned - As unbelievable as that sounds.

Specifically: The "Combined Disaster" card of the Illuminati Card Game could serve as evidence that the Japan Earthquake disaster was planned to bring down Japan. They had combined disasters as shown in the card (below), e.g Earthquake-Tsunami - Nuclear power plant radiation leakage. And the 8.9 earthquake started at 2:47 local time, which also matches the "Combined Disaster" time on the clock shown in the card (See http://www.ufo-blogger.com/2011/03/japan-earthquake-illuminati-card-game.html for more information on this).


"Illuminati" is a stand-alone card game made by Steve Jackson Games (SJG), inspired by The Illuminatus Trilogy by Robert Anton Wilson and Robert Shea. The game has ominous secret societies competing with each other to control the world through sinister means, including legal, illegal, and even mystical. It was designed as a “tongue-in-cheek rather than serious”[1] take on conspiracy theories. It contains groups named similarly to real world organizations, such as the Society for Creative Anachronism.[2] It can be played by two to eight players. Depending on the number of players, a game can take between one and six hours. source wikipedia

It is amazing  to consider the fact that the game, released in 1995, shows many images of disasters that occurred after 1995. Take a look at yet another card, issued well before the disastrous events of 9/11. As you can see, the card below shows the Twin Towers of the World Trade Center being taken down is one of the most shocking of all, especially in light of the fact that this game first hit the specialty stores in 1995! In fact, this card accurately depicted the World Trade Center attack in great detail by illustrating several facts regarding the events of 9/11. The picture accurately depicts:


* That one tower was going to be struck first; this picture accurately depicts the moments between the first tower strike and the second.

* The card accurately depicts that the place of impact is some distance from the top of the twin towers. The plane hit in this approximate area of the first tower. How in the world could Steve Jackson know this fact?

* The card accurately depicts the Illuminati leadership by showing on the building to the extreme left of the card the Illuminist pyramid with an all-seeing eye in the middle.

* The caption at the top properly identifies the perpetrators of the attack as “terrorists”

However, what does the caption to this card mean? It says, “Terrorist Nuke”. Now, what could this possibly mean? The Twin Towers were not destroyed by a terrorist nuclear device, or were they?

In Bali Blast, the scientific data suggested that the hotel was taken down by a micro-nuclear device of about 0.10 kilotons . One can only ask: was a micro-nuclear device used at the base of the Twin Towers as well? That kind of small, but nuclear, explosion would account for the sudden manner the reinforced concrete and steel shell simply crumbled into dust as it fell. That kind of nuclear explosion would also explain the tremendous heat that stayed at “Ground Zero” for several months after 9/11.

Pentagon – Unless one had advanced knowledge of the Illuminati Plan, there is no way on earth that they would have been able to create pictures in 1995 that accurately depict the unfolding events of 9/11! The Pentagon is shown on fire; we know that a plane allegedly flew into a section of the Pentagon and nearly burned that section completely. However, the rest of the Pentagon was undamaged to the point where its functions continued unimpeded.

Isn’t this the situation depicted here? This card shows a fire burning mightily in the center courtyard of the Pentagon, but the rest of the building looks undamaged enough so that normal activities could continue unimpeded!

Thus, these two cards literally depict both of the strikes of 9/11: against the Twin Towers first and then against the Pentagon. This kind of accuracy 6 years before the attacks is possible only if one knows the Illuminati Plan very thoroughly. 

What is even more eerie is the latest set of cards that were released seem to now be happening before my very eyes. A friend of mine just ordered the latest edition and I will be commenting on these cards soon. What other types of disasters might the Illuminati have planned for us? In the card game we find the following: Tidal wave, Oregon disaster (type not stated), hurricane, volcano, combined disasters, and meteor strike, just to name a few. Are you ready?

If you are intrigued and would like to explore further, watch this video below - This shows the 1995 cards, referenced above. Peace, Rob Mann 


http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Pmj9eoYSuEM
















Parts of this article sourced from http://thetruthbehindthescenes.wordpress.com/2011/03/22/illuminati-card-game/




Posted by
Rob Mann


at
1:21 PM


1 comments















Email This

BlogThis!

Share to Twitter

Share to Facebook

Share to Google Buzz




Labels:
Card Game,
Clock,
Combined Disasters,
Future,
Illuminati,
Japan,
Pentagon,
Predicts Events,
Steve Jackson Games,
Video,
World Trade Center,
Youtube






Reactions: 










Wednesday, August 31, 2011





The Truth About All Of Those "SOLAR FLARE DOOMS-DAY" Reports: Don't Buy Into The Hysteria - Here's The FACTS







Dear Readers: For many months now I have been warning all of you to beware of the many Dooms-Day Scenarios flying around social media sites like Facebook. Recently, Severe Weather Forecaster Dutchsinse retracted some of his own mistaken beliefs about the ability to know the time and date of any 'end-of-the-world' scenario (to hear him speak about this, go here):
http://www.youtube.com/user/dutchsinse?blend=1&ob=5#p/u/1/cpRs8A6m90A

Please know that this blog will always provide supportive evidence whenever possible to back up any articles tinged with Conspiracy Theory overtones. Remember, many conspiracy theories are now proven to be conspiracy facts, acknowledged by even the mainstream media - 14 of those are discussed here: http://thetruthabout1111awakeningcode.blogspot.com/2011/08/14-conspiracy-theories-that-media-now.html

So look for evidence before going into a panic, and beware of the hype! Peace, Rob Mann

2012: No Killer Solar Flare
by IAN O'NEILL on JUNE 21, 2008


We could be in for a huge firework display in 2012. The Sun will be approaching the peak of its 11-year cycle, called “solar maximum”, so we can expect a lot of solar activity. Some predictions put the solar maximum of Solar Cycle 24 even more energetic than the last solar maximum in 2002-2003 (remember all those record breaking X-class flares?). Solar physicists are already getting excited about this next cycle and new prediction methods are being put to good use. But should we be worried?

According to one of the many Doomsday scenarios we have been presented with in the run-up to the Mayan Prophecy-fuelled “end of the world” in the year 2012, this scenario is actually based on some science. What’s more, there may be some correlation between the 11-year solar cycle and the time cycles seen in the Mayan calendar, perhaps this ancient civilization understood how the Sun’s magnetism undergoes polarity changes every decade or so? Plus, religious texts (such as the Bible) say that we are due for a day of judgement, involving a lot of fire and brimstone. So it looks like we are going to get roasted alive by our closest star on December 21st, 2012!

Before we go jumping to conclusions, take a step back and think this through. Like most of the various ways the world is going to end in 2012, the possibility of the Sun blasting out a huge, Earth-damaging solar flare is very attractive to the doomsayers out there. But let’s have a look at what really happens during an Earth-directed solar flare event, the Earth is actually very well protected. Although some satellites may not be…

The Earth has evolved in a highly radioactive environment. The Sun constantly fires high-energy particles from its magnetically dominated surface as the solar wind. During solar maximum (when the Sun is at its most active), the Earth may be unlucky enough to be staring down the barrel of an explosion with the energy of 100 billion Hiroshima-sized atomic bombs. This explosion is known as a solar flare and the effects of which can cause problems here on Earth.

Before we look at the Earth-side effects, let’s have a look at the Sun and briefly understand why it gets so angry every 11 years or so.

The Solar Cycle


First and foremost, the Sun has a natural cycle with a period of approximately 11 years. During the lifetime of each cycle, the magnetic field lines of the Sun are dragged around the solar body by differential rotation at the solar equator. This means that the equator is spinning faster than the magnetic poles. As this continues, solar plasma drags the magnetic field lines around the Sun, causing stress and a build up of energy (an illustration of this is pictured). As magnetic energy increases, kinks in the magnetic flux form, forcing them to the surface. These kinks are known as coronal loops which become more numerous during periods of high solar activity.

This is where the sunspots come in. As coronal loops continue to pop up over the surface, sunspots appear too, often located at the loop footpoints. Coronal loops have the effect of pushing the hotter surface layers of the Sun (the photosphere and chromosphere) aside, exposing the cooler convection zone (the reasons why the solar surface and atmosphere is hotter than the solar interior is down to the coronal heating phenomenon). As magnetic energy builds up, we can expect more and more magnetic flux to be forced together. This is when a phenomenon known as magnetic reconnection occurs.

Reconnection is the trigger for solar flares of various sizes. As previously reported, solar flares from “nanoflares” to “X-class flares” are very energetic events. Granted, the largest flares my generate enough energy for 100 billion atomic explosions, but don’t let this huge figure concern you. For a start, this flare occurs in the low corona, right near the solar surface. That’s nearly 100 million miles away (1AU). The Earth is nowhere close to the blast.

As the solar magnetic field lines release a huge amount of energy, solar plasma is accelerated and confined within the magnetic environment (solar plasma is superheated particles like protons, electrons and some light elements such as helium nuclei). As the plasma particles interact, X-rays may be generated if the conditions are right and bremsstrahlung is possible. (Bremsstrahlung occurs when charged particles interact, resulting in X-ray emission.) This may create an X-ray flare.

The Problem with X-ray Solar Flares

The biggest problem with an X-ray flare is that we get little warning when it is going to happen as X-rays travel at the speed of light (one of the record breaking 2003 solar flares is pictured left). X-rays from an X-class flare will reach the Earth in around eight minutes. As X-rays hit our atmosphere, they are absorbed in the outermost layer called the ionosphere. As you can guess from the name, this is a highly charged, reactive environment, full of ions (atomic nuclei, and free electrons).

During powerful solar events such as flares, rates of ionization between X-rays and atmospheric gases increase in the D and E region layers of the ionosphere. There is a sudden surge in electron production in these layers. These electrons can cause interference to the passage of radio waves through the atmosphere, absorbing short wave radio signals (in the high frequency range), possibly blocking global communications. These events are known as “Sudden Ionospheric Disturbances” (or SIDs) and they become commonplace during periods of high solar activity. Interestingly, the increase in electron density during a SID boosts the propagation of Very Low Frequency (VLF) radio, a phenomenon scientists use to measure the intensity of X-rays coming from the Sun.

Coronal Mass Ejections?

X-ray solar flare emissions are only part of the story. If the conditions are right, a coronal mass ejection (CME) might be produced at the site of the flare (although either phenomenon can occur independently). CMEs are slower than the propagation of X-rays, but their global effects here on Earth can be more problematic. They may not travel at the speed of light, but they still travel fast; they can travel at a rate of 2 million miles per hour (3.2 million km/hr), meaning they may reach us in a matter of hours.

This is where much effort is being put into space weather prediction. We have a handful of spacecraft sitting between the Earth and the Sun at the Earth-Sun Lagrangian (L1) point with sensors on board to measure the energy and intensity of the solar wind. Should a CME pass through their location, energetic particles and the interplanetary magnetic field (IMF) can be measured directly. One mission called the Advanced Composition Explorer (ACE) sits in the L1 point and provides scientists with up to an hour notice on the approach of a CME. ACE teams up with the Solar and Heliospheric Observatory (SOHO) and the Solar TErrestrial RElations Observatory (STEREO), so CMEs can be tracked from the lower corona into interplanetary space, through the L1 point toward Earth. These solar missions are actively working together to provide space agencies with advanced notice of an Earth-directed CME.

So what if a CME reaches Earth? For a start, much depends on the magnetic configuration of the IMF (from the Sun) and the geomagnetic field of the Earth (the magnetosphere). Generally speaking, if both magnetic fields are aligned with polarities pointing in the same direction, it is highly probable that the CME will be repelled by the magnetosphere. In this case, the CME will slide past the Earth, causing some pressure and distortion on the magnetosphere, but otherwise passing without a problem. However, if the magnetic field lines are in an anti-parallel configuration (i.e. magnetic polarities in opposite directions), magnetic reconnection may occur at the leading edge of the magnetosphere.

In this event, the IMF and magnetosphere will merge, connecting the Earth’s magnetic field with the Sun’s. This sets the scene for one of the most awe inspiring events in nature: the aurora.

Satellites in Peril

As the CME magnetic field connects with the Earth’s, high energy particles are injected into the magnetosphere. Due to solar wind pressure, the Sun’s magnetic field lines will fold around the Earth, sweeping behind our planet. The particles injected in the “dayside” will be funnelled into the polar regions of the Earth where they interact with our atmosphere, generating light as aurorae. During this time, the Van Allen belt will also become “super-charged”, creating a region around the Earth that could cause problems to unprotected astronauts and any unshielded satellites. For more on the damage that can be caused to astronauts and spacecraft, check out “Radiation Sickness, Cellular Damage and Increased Cancer Risk for Long-term Missions to Mars” and “New Transistor Could Side-Step Space Radiation Problem.”

As if the radiation from the Van Allen belt wasn’t enough, satellites could succumb to the threat of an expanding atmosphere. As you’d expect, as if the Sun hits the Earth with X-rays and CMEs, there will be inevitable heating and global expansion of the atmosphere, possibly encroaching into satellite orbital altitudes. If left unchecked, an aerobraking effect on satellites could cause them to slow and drop in altitude. Aerobraking has been used extensively as a space flight tool to slow spacecraft down when being inserted into orbit around another planet, but this will have an adverse effect on satellites orbiting Earth as any slowing of velocity could cause it to re-enter the atmosphere.

We Feel the Effects on the Ground Too

Although satellites are on the front line, if there is a powerful surge in energetic particles entering the atmosphere, we may feel the adverse effects down here on Earth too. Due to the X-ray generation of electrons in the ionosphere, some forms of communication may become patchy (or be removed all together), but this isn’t all that can happen. Particularly in high-latitude regions, a vast electric current, known as an “electrojet”, may form through the ionosphere by these incoming particles. With an electric current comes a magnetic field. Depending on the intensity of the solar storm, currents may be induced down here on the ground, possibly overloading national power grids. On March 13th 1989, six million people lost power in the Quebec region of Canada after a huge increase in solar activity caused a surge from ground-induced currents. Quebec was paralysed for nine hours whilst engineers worked on a solution to the problem.

Can Our Sun Produce a Killer Flare?


The short answer to this is “no”.

The longer answer is a little more involved. Whilst a solar flare from out Sun, aimed directly at us, could cause secondary problems such as satellite damage and injury to unprotected astronauts and blackouts, the flare itself is not powerful enough to destroy Earth, certainly not in 2012. I dare say, in the far future when the Sun begins to run out of fuel and swell into a red giant, it might be a bad era for life on Earth, but we have a few billion years to wait for that to happen. There could even be the possibility of several X-class flares being launched and by pure bad luck we may get hit by a series of CMEs and X-ray bursts, but none will be powerful to overcome our magnetosphere, ionosphere and thick atmosphere below.

“Killer” solar flares have been observed on other stars. In 2006, NASA’s Swift observatory saw the largest stellar flare ever observed 135 light-years away. Estimated to have unleashed an energy of 50 million trillion atomic bombs, the II Pegasi flare will have wiped out most life on Earth if our Sun fired X-rays from a flare of that energy at us. However, our Sun is not II Pegasi. II Pegasi is a violent red giant star with a binary partner in a very close orbit. It is believed the gravitational interaction with its binary partner and the fact II Pegasi is a red giant is the root cause behind this energetic flare event.

Doomsayers point to the Sun as a possible Earth-killer source, but the fact remains that our Sun is a very stable star. It does not have a binary partner (like II Pegasi), it has a predictable cycle (of approximately 11 years) and there is no evidence that our Sun contributed to any mass extinction event in the past via a huge Earth-directed flare. Very large solar flares have been observed (such as the 1859 Carrington white light flare)… but we are still here.

In an added twist, solar physicists are surprised by the lack of solar activity at the start of this 24th solar cycle, leading to some scientists to speculate we might be on the verge of another Maunder minimum and “Little Ice Age”. This is in stark contrast to NASA solar physicist’s 2006 prediction that this cycle will be a “doozy”.

This leads me to conclude that we still have a long way to go when predicting solar flare events. Although space weather prediction is improving, it will be a few years yet until we can read the Sun accurately enough to say with any certainty just how active a solar cycle is going to be. So, regardless of prophecy, prediction or myth, there is no physical way to say that the Earth will be hit by any flare, let alone a big one in 2012. Even if a big flare did hit us, it will not be an extinction event. Yes, satellites may be damaged, causing secondary problems such as a GPS loss (which might disrupt air traffic control for example) or national power grids may be overwhelmed by auroral electrojets, but nothing more extreme than that.

But hold on, to sidestep this issue, doomsayers now tell us that a large solar flare will hit us just as the Earth’s geomagnetic field weakens and reverses, leaving us unprotected from the ravages of a CME… The reasons why this is not going to happen in 2012 is worthy of its own article. So, look out for the next 2012 article “2012: No Geomagnetic Reversal“.

Leading image credits: MIT (supernova simulation), NASA/JPL (solar active region in EUV). 

This story sourced from: http://www.universetoday.com/14645/2012-no-killer-solar-flare/





Posted by
Rob Mann


at
10:30 AM


0
comments















Email This

BlogThis!

Share to Twitter

Share to Facebook

Share to Google Buzz




Labels:
2012,
Activity End Of The World,
Conspiracy Theories,
Dooms-Day,
Dutchsinse,
Elenin,
Killer Flare,
Solar Flares,
The Truth






Reactions: 












At Least 6 Strange Anomalies Associated With Virginia/DC Earthquake: Example - Did You Know That This Unusually Shallow Quake Instantaneously Knocked Hurricane Irene Off Course???







NOTE FROM ROB MANN AT WORLD EXAMINER NEWS: TO LEARN MORE ABOUT HAARP, WEATHER MODIFICATION, AND THE U.S. MILITARY MISSION TO "OWN THE WEATHER BY 2025", read this article on the U.S. Military's plan to "Own The Weather In 2025": 

http://thetruthabout1111awakeningcode.blogspot.com/2011/07/haarp-slices-and-dices-and-boils-our.html

Also: Please note that in the below story the writer failed to mention that the Craton and North Atlantic Crust is actually made up of a "single plates" that extend for thousands of miles across. They are not just "older and colder" They got "older" because they are mostly granite or igneous rock and thus the strongest rock formation with very little "tremblor" effect. As compared to out West where the Crust is far more Metamorphic and Sedimentary where the CRust has broken into major and minor pieces. So, the difference between a solid plate taking a hit by an adjacent plate is that a Resonance will emanate from the point of Origin of the Quake and spread out traveling as far as the single plate will go . . . dissipating or weakening along the way. Everything normal, thus far.

However, the lack of follow up Waves is a Major Anomaly. Should have been more than One, the 2.8'er I reported in Upper State New York. Or, two, the One in Canada.

Could be a Nuke test, but I doubt it with the Epicenter in VA, near D.C. Since, the Nuke Plant HAD NO SEISMOGRAPH EQUIPMENT to give it advanced notice, we know something is up. The plant workers said they are so old, they have no "auto shutoff" as has been reported. Yet, when they went to shut it down, it has already been shut down.

H.A.A.R.P. can be set to have "long intervals" which would create ever deeper penetration. Or "short burst intervals" which would make it shallow. Or, lower the resonant frequency which would make the Quake greater intensity. So, any and all types of Quake Manifestations are totally within its capabilities.
-Rob Mann

Below story written by Eric Blair
Activist Post

My first thought upon hearing the news of the rare 5.9 magnitude earthquake in Virginia this week was that it was not a natural occurrence. After all, no one has ever felt or even heard of such a powerful temblor happening in this area in a lifetime. As is usual for my cynical instincts, I hoped that I was wrong. However, several anomalies indicate that something is not normal with the Virginia quake.

Image source - Enterprise Mission

First, I spend a lot of time in the "Ring of Fire" zone and have experienced numerous earthquakes.  By no means does this make me an expert, nor scientifically qualified to analyze earthquakes.  But, as enthusiasts, we looked up every quake we felt over a five-year period -- the size, epicenter location, depth, and so on, to get a general sense of placing how it "felt" relative to the official data.

I can categorically state that, of the dozen or so earthquakes that I've experienced, including a powerful 6.2, all of them started gently, none of them were over 50 miles away, all of them had depths of several kilometers, and the big ones seemed to have multiple aftershocks reported. Again, I say this as an observer, not as a scientist, and I'm only providing this background simply to qualify my immediate skepticism.

Furthermore, curiously, the "Great Virginia Quake of 2011," unprecedented in size and scope, should have grabbed the media headlines and discussion for weeks, but Hurricane Irene has all but wiped the earthquake off the weather map.  Even as all the storm measurements for Irene show that it will likely be a minor nuisance, maybe some flooding and power outages, multiple states of emergency have been declared, mandatory mass evacuations ordered, and the media is all too eager to spread the panic.  You'd think the east coast of the United States was being invaded.  It feels like a distraction, or perhaps a large but manageable live drill of some kind to make heroes out of our politicians, and FEMA look like a successful agency.

If this manic and surreal coverage of Irene is a deliberate distraction, the anomalies regarding the recent earthquake may have provided sufficient motivation for doing so.  Not to discount other establishment catastrophes that they may want to distract from at this critical time -- like the crumbling economy, record political disapproval, and the bungled invasion of Tripoli -- but, if any discussion about the unusual nature of the earthquake was allowed one must ponder if some sort of manipulation was involved.  The establishment will not permit such talk, apparently; hence the rapid about-face on earthquake coverage.

Below are six abnormalities about the Virginia earthquake that should warrant further investigation:

Location: The location is the most obvious anomaly for such a powerful quake. Although the area of the U.S. where the earthquake initiated sits on the edge of an ancient tectonic plate called the Craton Plate, it is considered a relatively dormant or settled area.  In other words, it's not a very active earthquake zone.  Therefore, any noticeable earthquake is unusual, let alone a 5.9 monster that was reportedly felt 500 miles away. Furthermore, if one is inclined to believe that earthquakes can be manipulated, the epicenter occurring close to Washington D.C. (with all its sensitive military and government infrastructure) raises some suspicions. Admittedly, that's conjecture, but considering the following oddities it might be more believable by the end of the article.

Unusually Shallow Depth:  The initial hypocenter (depth) of the quake reported by the establishment media was, wait for it, wait for it, only 0.1 miles or about 528 feet (161 meters) deep. That's right, AFP announced the depth with certainty, "The Pentagon, the US Capitol and monuments in the nation's capital were all evacuated after the 5.9-magnitude quake, which was shallow with its epicenter only 0.1 miles underground."  The depth was later adjusted to a more believable 3.7 miles (5.95 kilometers) beneath the surface. Still, shallow-focus quakes usually only occur in areas abundant in seismic activity, like the ring of fire. And the depths of those shallow-focus earthquakes are usually in the tens of kilometers deep.  The Earth's crust in the Eastern U.S. where "the fault lines are more healed" is described by CBS News as "older and colder" than out West. Which, according to Wikipedia, means it should have been a deep-focus earthquake with a depth ranging from 300 to 700 kilometers.  Certainly not one barely below the Earth's surface.

Odd Seismograph Reading:  A reporter from Press Core received an anonymous email from someone claiming to be in the U.S. Air Force that stated the Virginia earthquake “wasn’t a natural earthquake and not a HAARP earthquake."  The reporter was instructed to find a seismograph of the Washington DC area earthquake and compare it to a past earthquakes and seismic readings of the alleged underground nuclear test by North Korea that resulted in a 4.7 magnitude tremor at a depth of zero.

Seismograph of Virginia quake in green -- Washington and Lee University (85 miles from epicenter)

Press Core writes, the green lines indicate the blunt tremor that was felt in Washington D.C. and the black lines are a transparent overlay of a seismograph from a pdf file from Virginia Division Mineral Resources on Earthquakes. That file describes a typical natural occurring earthquake as:

When a fault ruptures, energy is released in the form of seismic waves. The first waves to reach the earth’s surface are primary or 'P' waves (Figure 2). P waves are compressional waves that travel at a speed of about four miles per second near the surface – faster as depth increases. The next waves to reach the earth’s surface are secondary or 'S' waves. S waves are shear waves that move at a speed of about 1.5 miles per second. P and S waves are body waves that travel through the earth much like sonar waves travel through water. Surface waves, which are slower than S waves, travel along the surface of the earth much like waves at the surface of the ocean. S waves and surface waves cause the most destruction at the earth’s surface.
The article concludes; "What is missing from the seismograph for the Washington DC area 5.8 magnitude earthquake are the primary or 'P' waves. All earthquakes that are the direct result of fault rupture have these primary or 'P' waves. Nuclear detonations do not."

Distance Felt: As my introduction stated, I've never "felt" an earthquake whose epicenter was farther than 50 miles away.  Of course, this doesn't mean that it's not possible, as clearly this was felt upwards of 500 miles from the epicenter.  The CBS article quoted above that referred to the crust as "older and colder" also uses that argument to explain why tremors were felt so far away: "The East is far less seismically active -- but when earthquakes do hit, that hard ground is far more effective at conducting the seismic waves. When you hit it, it rings like a bell," said Christopher Scholz a professor of geophysics at Columbia University's Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory at Columbia University."  This seems a bit contradictory given the shallow depth of the quake, but there may be some validity to the "bell" theory.  The fact remains, earthquakes whose effects travel long distances are uncommon, hence the reason for the CBS article about why the quake was so "widely felt."

'Remarkably Low' Number of Aftershocks:  Amy Vaughan, a geophysicist with the USGS Earthquake Information Center in Colorado told CBS News that "For the size earthquake that occurred, I think the number of aftershocks so far has been remarkably low." Don Blakeman, another geophysicist at the Earthquake Information Center, added "Typically, the larger the quake, the longer and the greater extent of aftershocks. Shallow earthquakes like the one in Virginia also tend to generate numerous aftershocks."  The lack of aftershocks led the USGS to report that the Virginia quake may be just a foreshock of something larger to come. A foreshock is an earthquake that occurs before a larger seismic event (the mainshock) and is related to it in both time and space.  I'm not sure what this means other than it's just another abnormality about this quake.

Image source - Enterprise Mission

Instantaneously Knocked Irene Off Course: Kevin Hayden and Glenn Kreisberg reported "Coincidentally, the time frame leading up to Virginia/DC/New York area experiencing freak seismic activity, Hurricane Irene begins to weaken and move off course, avoiding its initial path of Havanna, inland Florida, the Carolinas, and eventually, the Washington, DC area. The newly projected paths show that it may barely clip the eastern coast, if at all. Just as Ophelia did when it threatened the same region."  Irene stalled and changed directions similar to Ophelia seen in the graphic provided.  Clearly, these types of drastic changes are not a natural path for hurricanes.

A few articles have speculated that HAARP earthquake weapons were to blame, in conjunction with manipulating hurricane Irene. Indeed, when one knows even the basic capabilities of HAARP, this does not seem too far-fetched.  Press Core seems to think the seismic data proves it was more similar to an underground nuclear detonation.  One thing is for sure, the mysterious characteristics of the Virginia quake seem to indicate that it was not a typical earthquake.

I invite all my readers here at World Examiner News to comment on what you think about these strange anomalies, or please provide solid evidence to explain this unusual evidence.

TO LEARN MORE ABOUT HAARP, WEATHER MODIFICATION, AND THE U.S. MILITARY MISSION TO "OWN THE WEATHER BY 2025", GO HERE - And don't forget to SHARE THE KNOWLEDGE with others! Peace, Rob Mann http://thetruthabout1111awakeningcode.blogspot.com/2011/07/haarp-slices-and-dices-and-boils-our.html

Story sourced from http://beforeitsnews.com/story/1019/023/6_Strange_Anomalies_With_The_Virginia_Earthquake.html




Posted by
Rob Mann


at
8:49 AM


0
comments















Email This

BlogThis!

Share to Twitter

Share to Facebook

Share to Google Buzz




Labels:
6 Strange Anomalies Associated With Virginia/DC Earthquake,
DC,
Virginia,
What Caused Earthquake






Reactions: 










Monday, August 29, 2011





Human Mission to an Asteroid: MEET THE ONION MPCV - WHAT ON EARTH (OR SPACE) IS NASA DOING???







WHY IS NASA BUILDING A CRAFT THAT IS DESIGNED TO ALLOW MAN TO LAND ON AN ASTEROID (read story, below)???

The Orion capsule in an Acoustic Chamber for testing at Lockheed Martin. Credit: Lockheed Martin

Back in 2007, when the Constellation program to return to the Moon was still the program of record for NASA, a group from Lockheed Martin began investigating how they might be able to use the Orion lunar capsule to send humans on a mission to an asteroid. Originally, this plan — called Plymouth Rock — was just a study to see how an asteroid mission with Orion could possibly serve as a complement to the baseline of Constellation’s lunar mission plans.

Now, it has turned into much more.

The Orion MPCV being built and tested at Lockheed Martin in Boulder, Colorado. Credit: John O'Connor, NASATech.net. Click for super-large, pan-able image.

Thanks to John O’Connor from NASATech.net, we are able to show you some views of the Orion MPCV inside Lockheed Martin’s facilities in Boulder, Colorado.


After canceling Constellation in February of 2010, two months later President Obama outlined sending astronauts to a nearby asteroid by 2025 and going to Mars by the mid-2030?s.

In May of 2011, NASA confirmed that the centerpiece of those missions will be the Orion – now called the Orion MultiPurpose Crew Vehicle. The repurposed Orion lunar vehicle would now be going to an asteroid, just like Josh Hopkins and his team from Lockheed Martin envisioned in their Plymouth Rock study.

Hopkins is the Principal Investigator for Advanced Human Exploration Missions, a team of engineers who develop plans and concepts for a variety of future human exploration missions.

“Normally when you take a spacecraft or a piece of hardware that has been designed for one job and you try to figure out how to use it for a different job, you discover there are all these details that don’t work out quite right,” Hopkins told Universe Today. “But we were pleasantly surprised that when we took this lunar version of Orion and applied it to an asteroid mission, it is a really flexible and capable vehicle and a lot of the requirements for the lunar mission match pretty well with the asteroid mission.”

Concept drawing of the Plymouth Rock mission to an asteroid. Credit: Lockheed Martin.

The Plymouth Rock design called for using two specially modified Orion spacecraft docked nose to nose in order to provide enough living space, propulsion, and life-support for two astronauts heading to an asteroid. But NASA has said the MPCV will be used primarily for launch and entry while a larger habitation module would be docked to the MPCV to enable a crew of 4 to travel to deep space.

Shuttle astronaut Tom Jones was impressed with the Plymouth Rock concept, but knows a larger companion vehicle will be needed for a trip to an asteroid. “Plymouth Rock is the minimalist approach to do an asteroid mission,” he said. “That’s one way to solve the redundancy problem in the short-term.”



But even developing an in-space habitat could be a matter of repackaging things we already have. “The hab module could be derived directly from what we’ve done for space station, or it could be a commercial inflatable like from Bigelow, so that might be tried out by a commercial station or hotel in the next 10 years, so that would be demonstrated technology,” Jones said.

“Basically the tradeoff between a larger in-space habitat module versus the dual Orion approach is that by having a separate habitat you have more living space, more storage space, and there is the potential that it would be better for performing spacewalks,” said Hopkins. “But then you have to invest the costs for developing that system.”

Hopkins added that when he and his team initially conceived the Plymouth Rock mission, they were trying to figure out how to do an asteroid mission for as little as possible. Using two Orions was cheaper than developing a module specific to an asteroid mission.

“For Plymouth Rock, we had spelled out the need to basically increase the amount of food, water, oxygen and storage in the spacecraft, and some of that is accomplished by the fact of having two spacecraft,” Hopkins said.

For now, NASA hasn’t yet changed many of the requirements for the MPCV from what they previously were for the lunar vehicle, and as the mission design evolves, so might the MPCV. But so far, the lunar design seems to be working, and Hopkins said there are several design features already in Orion that make it very capable as a deep space vehicle.

For lunar missions, Orion was designed for basically 21 days with a crew on board going from Earth to the Moon and back and having a roughly have a six month “loiter period” while the crew was down on the lunar surface. That scenario would work for an asteroid mission, as a crewed flight to an asteroid would likely be about a six-month roundtrip journey, depending on the destination.

“So in things like reliability, leak rate of atmosphere in the cabin, and protection from radiation and micrometeorites, Orion is already designed for 6-7 month missions for the hardware,” Hopkins explained. “It is just not designed to have people for that long of time period.”

Orion has solar arrays rather than fuel cells like Apollo, which enable longer missions. Another big selling point is that the MPCV is designed to be 10 times safer during ascent and entry than its predecessor, the space shuttle.

“The reentry speeds are just a little bit faster for an asteroid mission than a lunar mission,” Hopkins said, “but current the thermal protection system we have should be able to handle it.”

A look inside the hatch of the Orion capsule at the Michoud Assembly Facility near New Orleans. Credit: John O'Connor, NASATech.net. 

Inside the MPCV is 9 cubic meters of habitable volume. “That is not total pressurized volume of the structure, but the space that’s left after computers, seats, supplies are all accounted for,” said Hopkins. “That’s about twice the size of a modern passenger van, like a Toyota Sienna.”
One big challenge is to figure out how use every nook and cranny to package a lot of supplies in a small amount of space, as the Orion could serve as a storeroom of sorts. “We think it’s possible,” Hopkins said. “We’ve done initial calculations that we can pack a reasonable amount of volume but it would be a pretty tight fit and we also have to think about the secondary things that need to be included, so that’s work that is ongoing.”

Logistically, the Orion MPCV could even support doing an EVA from the hatch on the capsule.

“We have a hatch that is big enough that an astronaut in a space suit can get out,” Hopkins said, “and the internal systems in the spacecraft are designed to tolerate the cabin being depressurized. We don’t rely on air circulation to carry the heat away from the electronics – they have their own cold plates to take the heat away. The knobs are designed to be manipulated with spacesuit gloves on, not just bare hands. A lot of those features just worked out to be pretty applicable to the asteroid mission because it was designed for a similar set of mission requirements.”

Lockheed Martin’s Space Operations Simulation Center in Colorado can simulates the MPCV docking with an asteroid. Credit: John O'Connor, NASATech.net.

Hopkins knows the requirements and capabilities the Orion, as well as the in-space habitat will likely change over time, depending on the destination and the timeline. “If the plan is to go to the moons of mars or distant asteroids relatively soon, say in the late 2020’s or early 2030s, you might go ahead and build a relatively large, capable in space habitat, because you will definitely need it for those more distant missions. But if the idea were to go to the easiest asteroids to get to and do that relatively soon, then you might stick with a smaller simpler habitat module, or perhaps even the twin Orion approach.”

When the MPCV does return from a mission to an asteroid, it will likely land in the Pacific Ocean. NASA has begun some at NASA’s Langley Research Center to certify the vehicle for water landings. Engineers have dropped a 22,000-pound MPCV mockup into the basin. The test item is similar in size and shape to MPCV, but is more rigid so it can withstand multiple drops. Each test has a different drop velocity to represent the MPCV’s possible entry conditions during water landings.

So while these tests are happening and while Hopkins and his team from Lockheed Martin are working on and testing the Orion MPCV, NASA is still trying to decide on a heavy-lift launch system capable of bringing humans beyond low Earth orbit and they have not named anyone to lead the design of a human mission to an asteroid. The NASA website doesn’t even have any official information about a human asteroid mission; it only mentions “beyond low Earth orbit” as the next stop for humans.

“We’re talking about something that is going to happen in 2025 so we haven’t even decided on a spacecraft yet,” said Michael Braukus from NASA’s Exploration Systems Mission Directorate via a phone call. “We’re planning on the asteroid mission happening; it’s just that we haven’t designated a person to be responsible for the asteroid mission itself. We have the Orion MPCV under construction and we are awaiting on the decision of a space launch system, which will be the rocket that will carry it to deep space, and we’re progressing down the road, but haven’t reached a point yet where we have actually assigned someone to start developing the mission.”

So, that appears to be NASA’s current biggest hurdle to a human asteroid mission: deciding on the Space Launch System.

by NANCY ATKINSON on AUGUST 25, 2011

Sourced from: http://www.universetoday.com/88434/human-mission-to-an-asteroid-the-orion-mpcv/




Posted by
Rob Mann


at
12:50 PM


0
comments















Email This

BlogThis!

Share to Twitter

Share to Facebook

Share to Google Buzz




Labels:
Asteroid,
Boeing,
Lockheed,
Mission,
Orion. NASA,
Space






Reactions: 












FUKUSHIMA CRACKING UP - Japan Nuclear Plant Disaster Officially Declared Nuclear Nightmare - This Is Not Fear-Mongering, This Is Simply FACT And The Global Community Has A Right To Know (Video Included - PLEASE SHARE THIS POST WITH OTHERS)







Note From Rob Mann: For MONTHS I have been trying to educate readers of this blog about the truth of the nuclear disaster in Japan. To many I am sure I looked like a fear-mongering conspiracy theorist. This is not the case. Now there is official recognition by governments around the world that the nuclear nightmare in Fukushima is currently impacting us ALL. Most of Tokyo will likely soon be uninhabitable. Please read the below and watch the videos before deciding that you have nothing to worry about. A media black-out has been going on since the Japan earthquake in March, 2011. Now the truth is coming out, and the entire world needs to know. PLEASE SHARE THIS POST WITH OTHERS.

TO LEARN HOW TO PROTECT YOURSELF (AND YOUR PETS) FROM RADIATION, Go Here For Links 
http://www.google.com/search?sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8&q=how+to+protect+yourself+from+radiation+fukushima+food

OR SEE THIS ARTICLE: http://houseoffoust.com/group/?p=1879


MISO SOUP ALSO COUNTERACTS RADIATION AS WELL: http://www.macrobiotic.org/Miso.htm


Radiation Above Chernobyl Evacuation Limits Found In Tokyo


http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dmwfKDllHMU&feature=player_embedded

The below article was written by Dr. Mark Sircus http://beforeitsnews.com/story/1022/628/FB/Officially_Declared_Nuclear_Nightmare.html

FUKUSHIMA IS CRACKING UP

Nothing good about the nuclear news at the end of August as we have official recognition (finally) of what is going on in Japan and thus what is threatening the rest of the world, especially the northern hemisphere. It is now being said that the amount of radioactive cesium that has leaked from a tsunami-hit nuclear plant is about equal to 168 of the atomic bombs dropped on Hiroshima at the end of World War II, Japan’s nuclear agency said Friday the 26th.

That’s like dropping one nuclear weapon a day since the beginning of this disaster and this is what they have been calling safe, no problem, don’t worry about it, go home and go to sleep. Dr. Chris Busby tells us in the above video that he himself went to Japan with very sophisticated equipment and found areas in Tokyo that were 1,000 times higher than the exclusion zone around Chernobyl.

The report said the damaged plant has released 15,000 tera becquerels of cesium-137, which lingers for decades and could cause cancer, compared with the 89 tera becquerels released by the U.S. uranium bomb.

Now tell me who in their right mind would be comfortable being downwind of that? The answer to that one is very tragic and sad—millions are too comfortable and many more millions are simply unaware because they are not being told by their governments or the mainstream press. But today that finally changes!

A person can still squirm around this one with all their rationalizations, but you can now count them—each nuclear explosion worth of radiation being pumped into the environment day after day after day.

The National Institute for Environmental Studies said its simulation of aerial flow, diffusion and deposition of the two isotopes released from the tsunami-hit plant showed their impact reached most of Japan’s eastern half, ranging from Iwate in the north to Tokyo and central prefecture (state) of Shizuoka. Both Iwate and Shizuoka are more than 180 miles (300 kilometers) away from the plant.
Tokyo is Finished

Time is running out for the 35 million people in the Tokyo metropolitan area and, in fact, in a year or two all of northern Japan will become quite uninhabitable for there is no way for them to stop the process once the fissioning materials work their way down into the earth and the water table below, which they have already done. (See my recent essay “The China Syndrome”.)

As radiation levels rise, some sanity has surfaced in Japan as the government lowered back down the radiation exposure limits for children to below one millisievert per year while at school. Following the accident, in a move that prompted outrage, Japan raised the exposure limit for both adults and children from one to 20 millisieverts per year, matching the maximum exposure level for nuclear industry workers in many countries.

Parents in Fukushima have since been calling on the government to lower limits at school, claiming that children face a higher risk from radiation-linked cancers and other diseases than adults, which of course is absolutely true. Radiation experts agree that children are at greatest risk from cancers and genetic defects because they are still growing, are more prone to thyroid cancers, and because they will have more time to develop health defects.

The news services continue to misrepresent the situation. “Areas surrounding Japan’s crippled Fukushima nuclear plant could remain uninhabitable for decades,” Reuters reported, when in reality it will be thousands of years at best. A brutal way of saying this is that the nuclear lobby is, all by itself, proving to be the undoing of the human race. But the British are still going to sing hail to the queen and the royal family, who are deeply wed to the uranium industry.

The Fukushima Daiichi nuclear complex “is still leaking low levels of radiation,” when it is still leaking high levels of radiation. “It could take more than 20 years before residents could safely return to areas with current radiation readings of 200 millisieverts per year, and a decade for areas at 100 millisieverts per year.” Someone is having a nuclear wet dream with these assumptions. Too many have swallowed hook, line and sinker the “safe, low-level, no harm, nothing to worry about” pronouncements in the press, so much so that they actually believe it. Humanity is stuck with Fukushima and all by itself it will badly pollute the north and, perhaps after some time, the south of our world as well.


http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LWU6KoS_2lI
New Data Supports Previous Fairewinds Analysis, as Contamination Spreads in Japan and Worldwide from Fairewinds Associates on Vimeo.

Newly released neutron data from three University of California San Diego scientists confirms Fairewinds’ April analysis that the disaster continues to contaminate the surrounding environment and upper atmosphere with large doses of radioactivity.

In a new revelation, the NRC claims that the plutonium found more than one mile offsite actually came from inside the nuclear reactors! If such a statement were true, it indicates that the nuclear power plant containments failed and were breached with debris landing far from the power plants themselves.

The bad idea of burning the radioactive materials (building materials, trees, lawn grass, rice straw) by the Japanese government will cause radioactive cesium to spread even further into areas within Japan that have been previously clean and across the Pacific Ocean to North America. Until very recently we in the West were considered barbarians by the Japanese. Perhaps when they burn these materials, knowing where some of that radiation is going, they are thinking of the old days. The real point here is that we are in trouble—serious trouble and we have not even begun to deal with this in our minds or hearts. We let the politicians lead us and now we see how high the price for that will go.
Governments Do Not Serve the People

Japan’s Prime Minister Naoto Kan has announced his resignation. Mr. Kan has been criticized for failing to show leadership after the devastating March 11 earthquake and tsunami, and ensuing nuclear crisis. The 64-year-old’s resignation had been widely expected, and comes amid tumbling public support. Kan is responsible more than anyone else for the government’s actions. As the disaster continues to unfold through the months and years to come it would not surprise me if Kan is shamed to the point of being invited to commit ritual suicide in Japanese fashion for his betrayal of the Japanese people.

Early on in the disaster, Toshiso Kosako, a Tokyo University professor, became senior nuclear adviser to Kan, then quickly resigned saying the government had ignored his advice and failed to follow the law, and had only taken ad hoc measures to contain the crisis at the crippled Fukushima nuclear power plant.

The Japanese government has yet to grasp the severity of the contamination within Japan, and therefore has not developed a coherent plan to protect its people from harm. Some say that without a cohesive plan, the radioactivity will continue to spread throughout Japan and around the globe further, but then again we might have to face the reality that there is nothing governments and industry can do now to mitigate the disaster.
Are People Dying Already?

I have already reported on increasing death rates for children under one year of age both on the east and west coasts of America and in western Canada. Some authorities have been bragging and waggling about the lack of deaths from this overblown disaster. But anyone who believes the authorities about anything these days needs to have his head examined.

A Japanese medical doctor recently sent me a translation of a blog in Japanese that talked about someone who lost three of his colleagues in two days. His translation stated that, “They were all involved in moving cars out of the evacuated areas early on at the request of evacuated families before the area became restricted. They were 32, 34, and 44, and first two died on August 9 and the third on August 10, all of heart attacks. (Not sure if it was really heart attacks or arrhythmia, since there was no autopsy done and the bodies were cremated.) There has been a middle-aged woman who was involved in a pet rescue, and she died of acute leukemia about a week after diagnosis in early August. She went to Fukushima at least once to pick up her relative’s dog that had been rescued, and she has a lot of family from Fukushima, so she might have been exposed to radioactive particles carried by those who had been exposed. She also seemed like the type of person who did not have good health to begin with.”

It is like vaccine deaths—so many of the sudden-infant and shaken-baby deaths can be blamed on anything but the real cause, which stems from the totally obnoxious toxins in vaccines. With the multiple vaccines given to children today, for them it’s like stepping into a boxing ring and having a hailstorm of punches delivered to their vulnerable young bodies.

Dr. Mark Sircus is a natural health expert and self-sufficiency advocate.  He is the author of several must-read books including titles such as Survival Medicine For the 21st Century, Winning the War on Cancer, and Humane Pediatrics.  You can find all of Mark's informative articles at his website IMVA. 




Posted by
Rob Mann


at
12:03 PM


0
comments















Email This

BlogThis!

Share to Twitter

Share to Facebook

Share to Google Buzz




Labels:
Arnie Gunderson,
Disaster,
Food,
Fukushima,
How To Protect Yourself From Radiation,
Nightmare,
Nuclear,
Radiation,
Tokyo,
Tokyo Will Be Uninhabitable






Reactions: 










Saturday, August 27, 2011





CHINA - RUSSIA ALLIANCE Would Create New World Order









By Lev Navrozov: When Stalin died in 1953, I was 25 years of age. The creators of the society in which I, and later my wife and our son, was living, considered themselves sages. On the other hand, I and other free spirits viewed Marx as a stupid, fat German hack, Lenin as a Russian idiot, and Stalin as a Georgian mass murderer.

It would be ridiculous to expect that intelligent people in Russia, a country of great literature and other arts and of sophisticated science and technology, would not see through childish make-believes that the crude slavery throughout the country was the greatest attainment of mankind. 

I remember the spring of 1941, when Hitler’s army crossed the Russian border. I also remember the day when quite a few writers in Russia, including my father, volunteered to stop a column of Nazi motorcyclists, equipped with machine guns, approaching Moscow. The Russian volunteers did not survive the attack, but Hitler’s onslaught on Moscow was cut short, and the enemy did not enter the city. 

The names of my father and other writers who were killed while stopping the advance of Nazi’s armed motorcyclists have been set in gold on a marble memorial plaque in the entrance hall to the Moscow Writers’ Club. 

Russia was the world’s only country that followed (in the autumn of 1917) the idiotism of the brain of Karl Marx. How did that happen?

The First World War was over, the Russian army was exhausted, and the prospect of being drawn into another war conflict was psychologically destructive. The soldiers wanted to go home.

The last Russian tsar was “overthrown,” since too few Russians understood how it was possible for Great Britain to develop its democracy while preserving their king and queen. 

In the aftermath of World War II, Stalin refused to give up the territories of the East-European countries as well as the Eastern part of Germany he had occupied during the war. Stalin turned them into slave countries having established his “Soviet” dominance, which surpassed Hitler’s Germany in being the most vicious and anti-Democratic regime of the time. 

It took decades for those European countries and the disintegration of the so-called “Soviet Union” to free themselves and get back their independence.

The most important political background of today’s Russia is its rulers’ fear of China. The Chinese just walk into Siberia and settle there, building their homes and opening businesses, and local authorities do not have the willingness or financial resources to prevent them. 

The old Russian fear of the medieval “Tatar-Mongol” invasion of Russia (the use of the word “Chinese” was avoided by the Soviet propaganda) was joyfully forgotten. 

This fear of the Chinese invasion is well justified. Post-Soviet era Russian “leaders” are trying to maintain good neighborly relations with China — it is out of this fear that they are trying to placate communist China by helping it to develop recent technologies, selling to China military equipment, and overlooking Chinese illegal settlers in Russian Siberia: all this to keep at bay the much-dreaded threat from the totalitarian communist dictators. 

The China subject is being widely discussed in the independent Russian press, and the present Russian leaders must realize that by selling military technologies to China they contribute to China’s military potential and just delay the much-dreaded confrontation.

The present rulers, or owners, of Russia may not believe in the successful defense against the “People’s Republic of China.” But what about Russia as a junior ally of the PRC?

Russian “leaders” realize that no European country will be able to resist the China-Russia alliance. Whereupon the remaining countries of the Eastern hemisphere will be crushed by China, Russia, and whatever other countries will join the alliance. 

That’s quite a feasible threat from the China-Russia alliance to the Western hemisphere: the United States, Canada, and South America. 

Hypothetically, or rather quite realistically, it is this China-Russia alliance that will make communist China the owner of the world. 

Yes, against the general background of history of the world, the free countries are miracles — the societies to live in and listen to music written by composers of genius and performed by musicians of genius, to read what has been written by thinkers and writers of genius, and so on. And just think of it — all this can be lost.

And the vital need of freedom can be lost: Many countries live without freedom.

The “Soviet government” promised to create such an abundance of all goods and services that they would be given free of charge to whoever wanted to have them. 

But the harsh reality has proved to be so much harder than the dreams of a fat German called Karl Marx and that the owners of other slave countries are as far from reality as it turned out to be in Soviet Russia.

Sourced from: Lev Navrozov levnavrozov@gmail.com.
http://www.newsmax.com/navrozov/China-Russia-Alliance-Stalin/2011/08/25/id/408654

Interesting paper on Russia's image of Russia - China Relations: http://www.brookings.edu/fp/cnaps/papers/lukinwp_01.pdf





Posted by
Rob Mann


at
12:05 PM


0
comments















Email This

BlogThis!

Share to Twitter

Share to Facebook

Share to Google Buzz




Labels:
Alliance,
China,
New World Order,
Russia,
Russia China Relations,
Stalin






Reactions: 













Older Posts

Home




Subscribe to:
Posts (Atom)




RECOMMEND This Educational Blog To Others On FACEBOOK



















TRANSLATE THIS BLOG Into Your Own Language

234567 











SHARE THE KNOWLEDGE

Share











Subscribe via email

Enter your email address:Delivered by FeedBurner











Subscribe To This Feed

Subscribe in a reader











Search This Blog


Loading...













Resources, Books, Videos, Links


11:11 AWAKENING CODE PHENOMENON and H.A.A.R.P. - What's The Connection?
2012 - The Truth About All Those Dooms Day Reports
About Project Blue Beam - Could It Be True?
Army Research Laboratory Document on Creating 3-D Holographic Imagery
Blue Spiral Over Norway: The Facts
Books on HAARP and Project Blue Beam
CHEM-TRAILS - STOP THEM NOW: Use This SAMPLE LETTER
CHEM-TRAILS: The FACTS - Free VIDEO
CONSENSUS TRANCE - CHARLES TART, PhD
CONSPIRACY THEORIES Proven To Be CONSPIRACY FACT
CROP CIRCLES and H.A.A.R.P.
David Sereda - He Was WRONG About The Blue Spiral Over Norway
Dutchsinse - SEVERE WEATHER FORECASTS using HAARP RINGS Seen On Intellicast Radar System
Dutchsinse Followers - Facebook Page 'Adepto Perfectus'
ELENIN - THE FACTS (Updated Weekly)
FALSE FLAG EVENTS: Learn About The ULTIMATE FFE
H.A.A.A.R.P. - LINKS to LOTS and LOTS of ARTICLES
H.A.A.R.P. - NOT Just Another "Research" Facility - Some Seriously Scary Stuff!
H.A.A.R.P. / EISCAT LOCATIONS AROUND THE WORLD - VIDEOS and MAP
H.A.A.R.P. As MILITARY WEAPONS Program (History)
HAARP and JAPAN EARTHQUAKE
HAARP and Weather Weaponry by Dr. Judy Wood
HAARP As DIRECT ENERGY WEAPON - THE ONLY VIDEO YOU NEED TO SEE
HAARP, Earthquakes, and Hurricanes
HOLES IN HEAVEN: FREE VIDEO: Activist and Actor Martin Sheen Narrates This Informative Video On the Dangers and Benefits of High and Low Frequencies and of Electromagnetic (ELF-Wave) Technology.
How To Prove HAARP Modifies Weather To Debunkers And Non-Believers
JAPAN NUCLEAR UPDATES With ARNIE GUNDERSON
List of HAARP / EISCAT Locations Around The World
NEW WORLD ORDER - Love Versus Fear - VIDEO
PROJECT BLUE BEAM: The ULTIMATE False Flag Event
Project Blue Beam: What Is It?
STOP H.A.A.R.P. NOW
Tom Bearden on Scalar Weather Weaponry
Undercover Alien - Youtube - Good Researching Going On Here
WHAT IS H.A.A.R.P.? (This Short Video Explains)
Whistleblowers Expanding MIND (Stop NWO Resource)



















Blog Archive






▼ 

2011
(122)



▼ 

September
(2)

PINE GAP, AUSTRALIA AND ITS MANY MILITARY AND TECH...
The Shadowy Deck Of Cards That Seem To Have Predic...








          ► 
        


August
(28)

The Truth About All Of Those "SOLAR FLARE DOOMS-DA...
At Least 6 Strange Anomalies Associated With Virgi...
Human Mission to an Asteroid: MEET THE ONION MPCV ...
FUKUSHIMA CRACKING UP - Japan Nuclear Plant Disast...
CHINA - RUSSIA ALLIANCE Would Create New World Ord...
More Than Twelve Nuclear Reactors Are Preparing To...
HAARP, Hurricane Irene, Tropical Storms, and the R...
14 Conspiracy Theories That The Media Now Admits A...
SERIOUS ALERT Issued On Nuclear Plant In Virginia:...
COMET ELENIN: It Is NOT Causing The Earthquakes. B...
Pentagon Report Says China Military Is Rapidly Gro...
Nuclear Power Plants In Virgina Shut Down Followin...
EARTHQUAKES IN VIRGINIA AND COLORADO: Some People ...
THE TRUTH ABOUT JAPAN: As I Reported Weeks Ago, A ...
THE RACE TO WEAPONIZE SPACE IS ON: China's Space P...
BREAKING NEWS: NASA Prepares To Land On ASTEROID B...
Comet Elenin: My Research Suggests This Is A NON-E...
Comet Elenin Attracts More and More Interest In Th...
Is HAARP Weather Modification Direct Energy Weapon...
Climate Change: Scientists Can Now Control the Wea...
NASA TO TAKE A CLOSER LOOK AT COMET ELENIN AUGUST ...
Dylan Ratigan of MSNBC Is Mad As Hell And Rants On...
RUSSIA HAD IT FIRST - No WONDER The U.S. Rushed To...
UPDATE ON COMET ELENIN: Well, I Hesitate To Say I ...
"Facebook: We Put The CIA In Social" - FB Confirme...
The USAF's Recently Launched X-37B Space Craft and...
Halliburton Detention Camps For Political Subversi...
CBC Investigative Reporter GRILLS H.A.A.R.P. Offic...








          ► 
        


July
(5)

How The U.S. Government May Be Setting The Stage F...
FEMA: The U.S. Federal Bureaucracy’s Secret Bluepr...
Facebook is a CIA-Funded Data-Mining Project! Lear...
"NASA, White House, Operatives Pushing Psyops Meme...
H.A.A.R.P. "Slices And Dices" and BOILS Our Earth'...








          ► 
        


June
(20)

DANGER IN OUR SKIES – Watch these two videos to le...
THE UNITED STATES OF DARKNESS
NUCLEAR THREAT In OMAHA, NEBRASKA - SEE VIDEO WITH...
MUST SEE VIDEO ON HAARP:  ALL ANTI-New World Order...
HAARP, WEATHER WARFARE, AND THE NEW WORLD ORDER: W...
Why I Am Suspicious Of All The 2012 DOOMS-DAY SCEN...
2012 REALITY CHECK - There is NO PLANET NIBIRU; EL...
ELENIN HOAX EXPOSED - Don't Be Fooled By This Late...
"THE BANKS HAVE TAKEN OVER" - Not Just In America,...
NASA RESEARCH SUGGESTS HAARP CAUSED JAPAN EARTHQUA...
LIES AND COVER UPS - PLUTONIUM  EJECTED FROM JAPAN...
"DON'T WORRY - BE HAPPY!" - Fukushima Reactors Are...
THREE REACTORS IN JAPAN Are Apparently IMPLODING: ...
NUCLEAR Melt-THROUGH In JAPAN! - This Is FAR WORSE...
EARTHQUAKES And H.A.A.R.P -Dr. Rosalie Bertell's M...








          ► 
        


May
(53)







          ► 
        


April
(14)

























About Me





Rob Mann


West Coast, United States
Independent Investigative Journalist committed to the exposure of Government and Military-driven Global Environmental Homicide.

View my complete profile











Chat With Rob Mann
















































Popular Posts




HAARP, Hurricane Irene, Tropical Storms, and the Recent Virginia / DC Earthquake: IS THERE A CONNECTION? Follow Me Down This Rabbit-Hole Before You Call Me CRAZY
HAARP, Hurricane Irene and the DC Earthquake: IS THERE A CONNECTION?   Note: I would like to thank the celebrity Roseanne Barr for publishin...










EARTHQUAKES IN VIRGINIA AND COLORADO: Some People Suspect HAARP, But Other World Powers Have HAARP-Type Weapons...COULD AMERICA BE UNDER ATTACK? Learn About Direct Energy Weapons - CHINA, RUSSIA, And 11 Other Countries Have Them Too!
UPDATE: 6 Strange Anomalies With Virginia/DC Earthquake: http://thetruthabout1111awakeningcode.blogspot.com/2011/08/at-least-6-strange-anoma...










HAARP / EISCAT LOCATIONS AROUND THE WORLD: See Them  Here On These TWO Videos - Plus MAP!
LIST of H.A.A.R.P. / EISCAT Locations Around The World   http://www.realistnews.net/attachment.php?aid=68   Here you can learn all about HAA...










The 11:11 Awakening Code Phenomenon and H.A.A.R.P. - WHAT'S THE CONNECTION?
Please watch this short video on the 11:11 Awakening Code - And then read my brief commentary that follows:     http://www.youtube.com/watch...










BREAKING NEWS: Blue Spiral Over Norway EXPLAINED - Watch These Videos To Learn More
NOTE TO READER: Scroll down to 4th video to hear what David Sereda says about Blue Spiral Anamolies, including the "Blue Spiral Over Norway"...










H.A.A.R.P.'s DEADLY EXPERIMENT ON OUR SKIES - An Expose On H.A.A.R.P.'s "MACHO SCIENCE" - 'New Toys For The Big Boys'
"It's An Experiment On The Sky"   I say it is an act of GLOBAL VANDALISM upon the earth. Maybe even HOMICIDE. H.A.A.R.P. Is ALTERING OUR EAR...










AMERICA's CORN BELT UNDER ATTACK - Dutchsinse CORRECT AGAIN With His SEVERE WEATHER Predictions Using HAARP RINGS: And Now Many People In Joplin, MO Are Dead!
Some of you may be asking, "What is HAARP? How could it control and manipulate the weather and cause tornadoes and hurricanes? I encourage y...










12 TORNADOES STRIKE MASSACHUSETTS -  And HAARP RING RADAR ANOMALIES Predicted These  "HITS" - See For Yourself By Watching This Video
ALERT: To watch videos explaining HAARP Technology and its ability to manipulate weather, go here: http://thetruthabout1111awakeningcode.blo...





DOES THIS LOOK LIKE A DIMENSIONAL SHIFT TO YOU? To ME, It Looks Like Black Ops EISCAT TESTING!
To visit this blog's homepage, go to: http://thetruthabout1111awakeningcode.blogspot.com/   NEW LINK ADDED May 26, 2011:    The article belo...





COMET ELENIN: It Is NOT Causing The Earthquakes. But It Provides A Great Cover To Stage A False Flag Event
Comet Elenin is coming! We’re doomed! That is if you believe everything you see on the internet. Comet Elenin’s approach has been all but ig...





















Configure Subscription Links







Posts
















                Atom
              










Posts












All Comments
















                Atom
              










All Comments



































Total Pageviews







































Robert Mann 2011. Awesome Inc. template. Template images by enot-poloskun. Powered by Blogger.











My Headlines

Subscribe to RSS headline updates from: Powered by FeedBurner 











FeedBurner FeedCount













Fair Use Notice of Youtube Material

Fair Use Notice:
 This site may contain copyrighted material sourced from Youtube.com, the use of which has not always been specifically authorized by the copyright owner. We are making such material available in our efforts to advance understanding of environmental, political, human rights, economic, democracy, scientific, and social justice issues, etc. We believe this constitutes a 'fair use' of any such copyrighted material as provided for in section 107 of the US Copyright Law. In accordance with Title 17 U.S.C. Section 107, the material on this site is distributed without profit to those who have expressed a prior interest in receiving the included information for research and educational purposes. For more information go to: http://www.law.cornell.edu/... If you wish to use copyrighted material from this site for purposes of your own that go beyond 'fair use', you must obtain permission from the copyright owner.
 

































