Todays World News






skip to main  |
      skip to sidebar






Todays World News












+1 button






























Pages


Home





















          In 
Allah,
God,
Islam,
Jesus,
Masjid al-Haram,
Muhammad,
Muslim,
Qur'an,
Quran,
Religion,
Sura


11:22 AM



0




Judge upholds ruling for Murfreesboro mosque There Is No Proof Islam Is A Religion





Image via Wikipedia
For the very first time, I see a statement here in this article that  says it like it is. At the bottom of the article here, you will notice  what is said.  

“Chancellor Corlew seems to go on and on that it’s been decided that  Islam  is a religion, and we take issue with that,” Brandon said.  “There’s no  proof in this case that Islam is a religion. There is no  case law or  code that Islam is a religion.”
Is Islam a Religion?

Fact  of the matter is NO. Religion was never set up as a place to Worship.  It there so that we practice Religion anywhere and everywhere. Somehow  law makers have taken this and twisted it so that it is only means in  buildings. 
As for the fact of Islam. It has nothing to do with what  people call religion. It is a book of Laws. Most of those laws do not  even co-exist with the very laws of our own land. Not sure if anyone has  noticed this. But the instant we see these new Mosques come in. We  almost immediately see more court cases how they want to punish others  under there own laws. This has and will continue to happen over and over  again.

For anyone who has Loved America should know our basic  laws. Simple stuff like Do not murder, Rape, Steal, Cheat. Most of it  are Basic Morals. On the other hand. The Qur'an is not like this  whatsoever. All these are allowed to further the cause of Holy War.  Those who choose not to believe this should take the time to read.  Mostly, if you plan to make this book your new laws. Because this is  exactly what the primary goal is in the Book. To take over the  populations and bring in Their laws under the name of Islam. 
Now, Don't take my word for it. Read it yourself.

http://quran.com/

Check out 3 34 Is this really what you want to see become our new Laws?
Men  are  in  charge  of  women   by  [right  of]  what Allah  has  given  one  over  the  other  and what   they  spend  [for   maintenance]  from  their  wealth.  So  righteous   women  are  devoutly  obedient,  guarding  in  [the  husband's]  absence   what Allah would   have  them  guard.  But those  [wives]  from  whom   you  fear   arrogance  -   [first]  advise  them;  [then  if  they   persist],  forsake  them  in  bed;  and  [finally],  strike  them.  But   if  they   obey  you  [once  more],  seek no  means  against  them.   Indeed,  Allah is  ever  Exalted  and  Grand.

2:191 
And  kill them wherever you  overtake them and expel them from wherever they  have expelled you, and  fitnah is worse than killing. And do not fight  them at al-Masjid al-  Haram until they fight you there. But if they fight you, then kill them.  Such is the recompense of the disbelievers.
5:51

O   you  who  have  believed,  do   not  take  the  Jews  and  the   Christians  as  allies.  They  are [in   fact]  allies  of  one   another.  And  whoever  is  an  ally  to  them   among  you  -   then  indeed,  he  is  [one]  of  them.  Indeed, Allah  guides  not  the   wrongdoing  people.
As you continue to read you realize, This teaches not to co-exist or even accept their ways. Yet it goes even further. 
I'll be placing a few more here but you can read a lot more here.

http://www.islam-watch.org/Sami/Islam-Tolerant-Religion-Kill-the-Infidels.htm
“And  when you journey in the earth, there is no blame on you if                 you shorten the prayer, if you fear that those who disbelieve will                 cause you distress, surely the unbelievers are your open  ENEMY.” (Sura                4, verse 101).

“O  you who believe! fight those of the unbelievers who are near                 to you and let them find in you hardness; and know that Allah is                 with those who guard (against evil).” (Sura 9, verse 123).

“Surely We have prepared for the unbelievers chains and                shackles and a burning fire.” (Sura 76, verse 4).

“They  desire that you should disbelieve as they have                 disbelieved, so that you might be (all) alike; therefore take not                 from among them (the unbelievers) friends until they flee  (their                homes) in Allah's way; but if they turn back, then  seize them and                KILL them wherever you find them, and  take not from among them a                friend or a helper.” (Sura 4,  verse 89)

The sad part is this goes on and on and  on throughout the entire book. Notice it really isn't about Worship.  It's more of submit to your prayers and do what your told. That's it. If  not your and infidel and should be killed or imprisoned. Again don't  take my word for it. Read it yourself. 
Now what is  the Bible? Isn't it the same? No! It has a very Morality laws in it. But  for the most part its about Men and Women and tells about their stories  with God and Jesus Christ. 
What about America's Laws? They basically come off of this.

http://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Exodus%2020&version=NKJVExodus 20The Ten Commandments 1 And God spoke all these words, saying:
       2  “I am the LORD your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage.  
       3  “You shall have no other gods before Me.  
       4  “You shall not make for yourself a carved image—any likeness of anything that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth; 5 you shall not bow down to them nor serve them. For I, the LORD your God, am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children to the third and fourth generations of those who hate Me, 6 but showing mercy to thousands, to those who love Me and keep My commandments.  
       7  “You shall not take the name of the LORD your God in vain, for the LORD will not hold him guiltless who takes His name in vain.  
       8  “ Remember the Sabbath day, to keep it holy. 9 Six days you shall labor and do all your work, 10 but the seventh day is the Sabbath of the LORD your God. In it   you shall do no work: you, nor your son, nor your daughter, nor your   male servant, nor your female servant, nor your cattle, nor your   stranger who is within your gates. 11 For in six days the LORD made the heavens and the earth, the sea, and all that is in them, and rested the seventh day. Therefore the LORD blessed the Sabbath day and hallowed it.  
       12  “ Honor your father and your mother, that your days may be long upon the land which the LORD your God is giving you.  
       13  “You shall not murder. (Notice the correct word here. Murder?) 
       14  “You shall not commit adultery.  
       15  “You shall not steal.  
       16  “You shall not bear false witness against your neighbor.  
       17    “You shall not covet your neighbor’s house; you shall not covet your   neighbor’s wife, nor his male servant, nor his female servant, nor his   ox, nor his donkey, nor anything that is your neighbor’s.”
What about Jesus. and His laws?
The Scribes: Which Is the First Commandment of All?http://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Matthew%2022&version=NKJV   
34 But when the Pharisees heard that He had silenced the Sadducees, they gathered together. 35 Then one of them, a lawyer, asked Him a question, testing Him, and saying, 36 “Teacher, which is the great commandment in the law?”

37 Jesus said to him, “ ‘You shall love the LORD your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your mind.’

38 This is the first and great commandment. 39 And the second is like it:  ‘You shall love your neighbor as yourself.’ 40 On these two commandments hang all the Law and the Prophets.”

You  be the judge. Be sure to read both books, Make up your own mind. Which  one is Peaceful? Which one is not? I cannot, for the life of me, figure  out how anyone could call Islam Peaceful. Murder is never peaceful. 
Now  take a look at the article below. What do you think. Is Islam a Religion  or just a book of Laws? Being it is all about Laws. Are you really that  willing to make their laws our own here in America? Many state are  already well on there way.

http://www.tennessean.com/article/20110831/NEWS01/308310117/Judge-upholds-ruling-Murfreesboro-mosque?odyssey=mod|newswell|text|FRONTPAGE|s

MURFREESBORO  — A Rutherford County judge decided to uphold  his earlier decision  that the Islamic Center of Murfreesboro has a  right, by law, to build a  bigger place of worship.
“Those who are  adherents to Islam are  entitled to pursue their worship in the United  States just as are those  who are adherents to more universally  established faiths (in our  community),” ruled Chancellor Robert Corlew  III.
Opponents of the  mosque had asked Corlew to reconsider the  decision he made in May,  which was that the 17 plaintiffs suing  Rutherford County government can  only challenge whether an open meeting  violation occurred over the  mosque’s approval.
No trial has been  scheduled on whether the  county failed to provide sufficient public  notice before its Regional  Planning Commission met May 24, 2010, to vote  on the Islamic center’s  plans to construct a 52,960-square-foot  community center with a mosque  on Veals Road.
Related articles"My Lord would not have cared about you had it not been for your supplication." (gauntletsofallahswt.wordpress.com)
Qu'ranic Weirdness. (aafwaterloo.wordpress.com)
Muhammad, God's enemy (confessingchurch.wordpress.com)
Qu'ranic Weirdness 3 (aafwaterloo.wordpress.com)
Jihad: Separating sheep from goats (americandefenseleague.wordpress.com)
-Opposition to Mosque in Tennessee? (answersforthefaith.com)
Herman Cain On Communities Banning Mosques: 'They Have A Right To Do That' (mediaite.com)
Murfreesboro Masjid Update (islamophobiatv.wordpress.com)
The Bible's Yahweh, a War-God?: Called "Lord of Armies" Over 280 Times in the Bible and "Lord of Peace" Just Once (I-II) (middleeastatemporal.wordpress.com)
Punishment for Apostasy and ISLAM (ahmadiyyamalta.org)
The Quran Says that People of Other Religions are to be Violently Punished in This World (paulmarcelrene.wordpress.com)
A Message and Invitation to Islam (mohammedirfan.wordpress.com)
Cain: Communities have right to ban mosques (msnbc.msn.com)
Murfreesboro mosque foes seek officials' emails (knoxnews.com)
Herman Cain: Tennessee Mosque Would Spread Extremism (huffingtonpost.com)
Herman Cain: First Amendment Be Damned [Dispatches from the Culture Wars] (scienceblogs.com)
Cain's anti-Muslim bigotry shows he's just another Republican eager to rewrite the Constitution (dailykos.com)
Cain says Tenn. mosque would spread Islamic law (thegrio.com)


Read more













          In 
Israel,
Jews,
Joel Rosenberg,
Palestinian National Authority,
Palestinian people,
State of Palestine,
United Nations,
West Bank


11:20 AM



0




Signs Of The Times - UN Vote In Sept Could Divide The World Over Israel





Image via Wikipediahttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLKgIcBjVaE&feature=player_embedded#at=32


Israel is gearing up for what could be massive Palestinian protests in September, when the United Nations may move forward with the recognition of a Palestinian state. "The most immediate one is the decision of the Palestinian Authority to reject negotiations with Israel," former Israeli U.N. Ambassador Dore Gold told CBN News.Palestinians want the United Nations to accept them as a member state in September. Gold said they want to use mass demonstrations in the West Bank to challenge Israel.Turning World Opinion"There's a strategy in the field to create an atmosphere of violence that leads TV networks to give it special coverage and forces public opinion, as well as Western governments to shift their position from one of questions about what the Palestinians are doing to strong support for what they're trying to accomplish," Gold explained.



Israeli Messianic leader Chuck Cohen said any such action would be dividing God's land to make an Islamic state in the territory promised to the Jewish people."The Palestinians never had it in the first place, and yet here we are facing this threat," Cohen said.And they want to divide Jerusalem."God is saying, I'm testing your hearts with Jerusalem that I'm giving back to my people," he added.If Israel defies the U.N., author Joel Rosenberg warned that the international community could team up to cut off Israel diplomatically and even economically."Think of what we did with Iraq for example. We built a coalition to cut her off economically and then eventually we sent a military to overthrow a regime," Rosenberg said.Weapons of WarAnd what if Israel agrees to divide its land with the Palestinians?
Joel 3http://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Joel+3&version=NKJV God Judges the Nations 1 “For behold, in those days and at that time,
      When I bring back the captives of Judah and Jerusalem,  
       2  I will also gather all nations,    
      And bring them down to the Valley of Jehoshaphat;  
      And I will enter into judgment with them there  
      On account of My people, My heritage Israel,  
      Whom they have scattered among the nations;  
      They have also divided up My land.  
       3  They have cast lots for My people,    
      Have given a boy as payment for a harlot,  
      And sold a girl for wine, that they may drink.  
       4  “ Indeed, what have you to do with Me,    
      O Tyre and Sidon, and all the coasts of Philistia?  
      Will you retaliate against Me?  
      But if you retaliate against Me,  
      Swiftly and speedily I will return your retaliation upon your own head;  
       5   Because you have taken My silver and My gold,    
      And have carried into your temples My prized possessions.  
       6  Also the people of Judah and the people of Jerusalem    
      You have sold to the Greeks,  
      That you may remove them far from their borders.  
       7  “ Behold, I will raise them    
      Out of the place to which you have sold them,  
      And will return your retaliation upon your own head.  
       8  I will sell your sons and your daughters    
      Into the hand of the people of Judah,  
      And they will sell them to the Sabeans,[a]
      To a people far off;  
      For the LORD has spoken.”  
       9   Proclaim this among the nations:    

      “ Prepare for war!  
      Wake up the mighty men,  
      Let all the men of war draw near,  
      Let them come up.  
       10  Beat your plowshares into swords    
      And your pruning hooks into spears;  
      Let the weak say, ‘I am strong.’”  
       11   Assemble and come, all you nations,    
      And gather together all around.  
      Cause Your mighty ones to go down there, O LORD.  
       12  “ Let the nations be wakened, and come up to the Valley of Jehoshaphat;    
      For there I will sit to judge all the surrounding nations.  
       13  Put in the sickle, for the harvest is ripe.    
      Come, go down;  
      For the winepress is full,  
      The vats overflow—  
      For their wickedness is great.”  
       14   Multitudes, multitudes in the valley of decision!    
      For the day of the LORD is near in the valley of decision.  
       15  The sun and moon will grow dark,    
      And the stars will diminish their brightness.  
       16  The LORD also will roar from Zion,    
      And utter His voice from Jerusalem;  
      The heavens and earth will shake;  
      But the LORD will be a shelter for His people,  
      And the strength of the children of Israel.  
       17  “ So you shall know that I am the LORD your God,    
      Dwelling in Zion My holy mountain.  
      Then Jerusalem shall be holy,  
      And no aliens shall ever pass through her again.”  
  Related articlesGOP Candidate Herman Cain Keeps It Simple in Israel (globalspin.blogs.time.com)
Abbas: We Won't Recognize Israel as Jewish State (atlasshrugs2000.typepad.com)
Abbas: We Won't Recognize Israel as Jewish State (americandefenseleague.wordpress.com)
Lieberman: Palestinians want to take over Israel from within - Ha'aretz (news.google.com)
Come September: The UN, Palestine, Israel, Vanunu and a Syrian Connection (middleeastatemporal.wordpress.com)
The Freedom-seekers America Ignores-With Washington's bipartisan blessing, Israel is sabotaging a Palestinian plea for U.N. recognition (middleeastatemporal.wordpress.com)
Palestinian: US warns of aid cut for statehood bid (seattletimes.nwsource.com)
Iran's Ahmadinejad: No place for Israel in region (sfgate.com)
PressTV: US diplomat threatens to cut PA funds (jhaines6.wordpress.com)
Stop the Lies and the Hate of Islamic Imperialism and Islamic Jew Hatred (atlasshrugs2000.typepad.com)


Read more













          In 
ABCNews,
Associated Press,
Hurricane Irene,
Michael Bloomberg,
National Hurricane Center,
New York,
New York City,
North Carolina,
Vermont


9:30 AM



0




Videos show upstate New York, Vermont Irene flooding





Image by The National Guard via FlickrThere are a few videos here at the link that shows some of the damage Irene's impact made. Be sure to check it out. 
http://news.yahoo.com/blogs/lookout/videos-show-upstate-york-vermont-irene-flooding-153510538.html
Hurricane Irene never hit New York City in the apocalyptic, big-city  disaster scenario that Mayor Michael Bloomberg had spelled out late last  week, but the storm still managed to leave 5 million homes and  businesses without power and at least two dozen dead, according to the Associated Press.
The storm caused some of the worst flooding in a century in Vermont,  and also submerged small upstate New York towns that are just now able  to take stock of the damage.
This ABC News report, below, shows the frightening flooding in New  York and Vermont--including dramatic footage of a covered bridge washing  out near Rockingham, Vermont:

A North Carolina road was completely washed out by the storm. You can  see flood waters bisecting Highway 12, which connects Hatteras and  Ocracoke islands to the mainland, in the video below. The collapse left  more than 2,000 people on the island stranded from the North Carolina  mainland. Six deaths have been reported in the state, most from falling  trees.

Irene moves to Canada as US counts cost http://news.yahoo.com/york-dodges-irene-18-killed-east-coast-010851568.html

Click to see more images of Irene's aftermath.The  remnants of Irene reached Canada Monday after barreling through the  northeastern United States where the storm claimed at least 18 lives and  caused estimated economic damage of up to $7 billion.
Millions of people were without power along the East Coast after the  huge storm -- now downgraded to a post-tropical cyclone -- passed over  the Big Apple and headed for Canada.
The Miami-based National Hurricane  Center warned late Sunday of "major river flooding occurring in parts of  the northeast," after President Barack Obama cautioned that recovery  efforts would last for "weeks or longer.""I want people to understand that this is not over," Obama said in a short statement in the White House Rose Garden."I do want to underscore that the impacts of this storm will be felt for some time... Power may be out for days in some areas." The governor of Vermont, Peter  Shumlin, said his state was in "tough shape" while New York state's  Andrew Cuomo warned of "tremendous flooding" in the Catskill Mountain  area north of Manhattan.
Related articlesVermont And Upstate New York Are Getting Absolutely Hammered By Irene Floods... (businessinsider.com)
Irene's Aftermath: Rescues, Flooding Continue (abcnews.go.com)
Hurricane Irene: Major Flooding Hits Upstate New York, Vermont (huffingtonpost.com)
Irene spares big cities, but Vt. sees huge floods (seattletimes.nwsource.com)
Residents Return to Face Irene Damage (foxnews.com)
Irene was deadly and expensive, but no monster (theglobeandmail.com)
Irene gone, but far from forgotten (cbsnews.com)
All Jokes Aside: Hurricane/Tropical Storm Irene Responsible For At Least 21 Deaths, A Million Without Power In 8 States (bossip.com)
Flooding fears left in Irene's wake (mirror.co.uk)
Irene storm cleanup in U.S. an emotional task (cbc.ca)
Irene cleanup could take days as U.S. assesses damage (ctv.ca)
Irene leaves path of destruction as it enters eastern Canada (macleans.ca)
Irene leaves mix of relief, grief (seattletimes.nwsource.com)
After "Irene" The Big Cleanup Begins (socyberty.com)
Hurricane Irene causes heavy flooding in Vermont - Los Angeles Times (news.google.com)
Vermont battles record-setting floods in the wake of Irene (csmonitor.com)
Irene moves north; East Coast deals with aftermath (abclocal.go.com)
Irene: Wet, deadly and expensive, but no monster (salon.com)


Read more













          In 
Ames Straw Poll,
DVD,
Herman Cain,
Independent film,
Liberty Movement,
Newt Gingrich,
Positive feedback,
Rick Perry,
Ron Paul,
Straw poll,
United State,
United States presidential election  2012


3:56 PM



0




For Liberty Re-cut - Ron Paul 2012 Handout Full Video.





Image via WikipediaI can't expect people to watch this. I can't even tell anyone to watch  this. It's a bit long. But, explains big issues that most people will  NOT pay any attention to. Mostly because of what other people says about  him. Yet, both Parties are the Problem. How many will stand for the  Constitution?
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GR4WYqabTxU

In late 2009 we released a feature-length grassroots documentary  entitled, "For Liberty: How the Ron Paul R3volution Watered the Withered  Tree of Liberty". Since then, we've been inundated with positive  feedback from people all over the world who have viewed the film, and  were inspired by Ron Paul's message of Freedom and Liberty. As  independent filmmakers, we've been humbled by the response.

 
Soon  after Ron Paul announced his new 2012 Presidential campaign on May 13th,  2011, we decided if we could shorten our original 120 minute film to  just under 60 minutes, that it would make an excellent handout DVD to  educate people about Ron Paul during his 2012 campaign.

We  produced a 55 minute re-cut and posted it to RonPaulForums to be viewed,  vetted and critiqued. Not long after, we debuted an updated version,  which included a brand new 5 minute Addendum edit at the end featuring  new exclusive commentary by Jack Hunter. The Addendum carries the viewer  past the end of the 2008 campaign and through some of the successes Ron  Paul & the Liberty Movement have had throughout 2008-2011.

With  an updated subtitle, we completely re-designed the DVD's packaging and  artwork into an informative literature piece in itself, and feel we've  crafted the perfect Ron Paul 2012 presidential campaign handout piece.  The best part is people can get them at a discounted price and in bulk  quantities right here on this site.

The For Liberty 2012 Re-cut  is packaged in a beautiful full-color 4 panel Wallet Sleeve, with each  piece individually shrink-wrapped making for the perfect handout for  rallies, fairs, when going door to door with literature about Ron Paul,  and more.

Anyone who views the film will definitely take a 2nd look at Ron Paul in the upcoming straw polls, caucuses, and primaries.

Visit http://ronpaulfilm.com to order this DVD in bulk quantities!



Judge Napolitano on the media ignoring Ron Paul.  The media is trying to  control who gets into the White House.  They don't decide. 'We The  People" decide.  Everybody admits Ron Paul is consistent in ideology and  of good character; yet, they ignore him.  Judge Napolitano is right.  The media has a credibility problem by ignoring Ron Paul.


Ames Straw Poll: Final results

August 13, 2011

1. Congresswoman Michele Bachmann (4823, 28.55%)

2. Congressman Ron Paul (4671, 27.65%)

3. Governor Tim Pawlenty (2293, 13.57%)

4. Senator Rick Santorum (1657, 9.81%)

5. Herman Cain (1456, 8.62%)

6. Governor Rick Perry (718, 3.62%) write-in

7. Governor Mitt Romney (567, 3.36%)

8. Speaker Newt Gingrich (385, 2.28%)

9. Governor Jon Huntsman (69, 0.41%)

10. Congressman Thad McCotter (35, 0.21%) 
Related articlesRon Paul 2012 - For Liberty Re-Cut (2012patriot.wordpress.com)
He's Leaping Past Bachmann (lewrockwell.com)
Ron Paul should take Rick Perry to the woodshed (thehill.com)
Ron Paul 2012 !!! LIBERTY TOO BIG TO FAIL !!! (2012patriot.wordpress.com)
TIME Magazine Pens Five Page Spread To Convince America Ron Paul Can't Win (gunnyg.wordpress.com)
Ron Paul: True Liberty vs. Perfect Safety (newsworldwide.wordpress.com)
Who's Afraid of Ron Paul? (fellowshipofminds.wordpress.com)
Ron Paul: Neo-Liberal (riehlworldview.com)
Low-key Ron Paul keeps it brief at New Hampshire golf event (politicalticker.blogs.cnn.com)
O'Reilly says Ron Paul won't come on his show (gunnyg.wordpress.com)


Read more













          In 
Bible,
Dedan,
Egypt,
Israel,
Meshech,
Middle East,
Son of man,
Tarshish,
Togarmah,
Tubal


1:30 PM



0




Egyptians to hold ‘million-man protest’ against peace accord with Israel





Image via WikipediaSeems the more this moves along Eziekel 38 and 39 is getting so much Closer. I posted many posts about all this. So far, all this is lining up perfectly with what the Bible said would happen over 4000 years ago. Still think the Bible isn't true? Yet more time will tell if this actually happens.

http://www.haaretz.com/print-edition/news/egyptians-to-hold-million-man-protest-against-peace-accord-with-israel-1.380723?localLinksEnabled=false

Who and how many will take part in today's million-man demonstration  in Tahrir Square? It is not expected to be one of the routine  demonstrations that have shaken Egypt since January. This time, Tahrir  Square will confront Egypt's foreign policy. The headline of the  demonstration is "Million-man demonstration to expel the Israeli  ambassador," and most of the protest groups have announced that they  will participate. Egyptian anger is not only directed at Israel which  killed five soldiers during the terrorist attack near Eilat last week,  but also against the Egyptian government's policy toward Israel.
Can Egypt-Israel peace hold amid growing public opposition to Israel?  Visit Haaretz.com on Facebook and share your views. 

  Egyptian protesters shout slogans against Israel earlier this week. 
 Photo by: Reuters 
Since  the terrorist attack there have been raucous demonstrations in front of  the Israeli embassy in the neighborhood of Giza that have resulted in a  national event and a national hero, who climbed the flagpole in front  of the embassy and removed the Israeli flag. Even though there are  reports of smaller crowds and consequently smaller amounts of security  guards protecting the embassy, the public discourse on the issue remains  intense.
Those who organized the demonstration today  also relied on a report in the daily Al-Masry Al-Youm, which said that  Israel has still not responded to an Egyptian request for a joint  investigation, and that National Security Adviser Ya'akov Amidror said  that Israel will hold no such joint probe.
Ezekiel 38Gog and Allies Attack Israel 1 Now the word of the LORD came to me, saying, 2 “Son of man, set your face against Gog, of the land of Magog, the prince of Rosh,[a] Meshech, and Tubal, and prophesy against him, 3 and say, ‘Thus says the Lord GOD: “Behold, I am against you, O Gog, the prince of Rosh, Meshech, and Tubal. 4  I will turn you around, put hooks into your jaws, and lead you out,  with all your army, horses, and horsemen, all splendidly clothed, a  great company with bucklers and shields, all of them handling swords. 5 Persia, Ethiopia,[b] and Libya[c] are with them, all of them with shield and helmet; 6 Gomer and all its troops; the house of Togarmah from the far north and all its troops—many people are with you.
7 “Prepare yourself and be ready, you and all your companies that are gathered about you; and be a guard for them. 8 After many days you will be visited. In the latter years you will come into the land of those brought back from the sword and  gathered from many people on the mountains of Israel, which had long  been desolate; they were brought out of the nations, and now all of them  dwell safely. 9 You will ascend, coming like a storm, covering the land like a cloud, you and all your troops and many peoples with you.”    
10 ‘Thus says the Lord GOD: “On that day it shall come to pass that thoughts will arise in your mind, and you will make an evil plan: 11  You will say, ‘I will go up against a land of unwalled villages; I will  go to a peaceful people, who dwell safely, all of them dwelling without  walls, and having neither bars nor gates’— 12 to take plunder and to take booty, to stretch out your hand against the waste places that are again  inhabited, and against a people gathered from the nations, who have  acquired livestock and goods, who dwell in the midst of the land. 13  Sheba, Dedan, the merchants of Tarshish, and all their young lions will  say to you, ‘Have you come to take plunder? Have you gathered your army  to take booty, to carry away silver and gold, to take away livestock  and goods, to take great plunder?

Joel 3http://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Joel+3&version=NKJV God Judges the Nations 1 “For behold, in those days and at that time,
      When I bring back the captives of Judah and Jerusalem,  
       2  I will also gather all nations,    
      And bring them down to the Valley of Jehoshaphat;  
      And I will enter into judgment with them there  
      On account of My people, My heritage Israel,  
      Whom they have scattered among the nations;  
      They have also divided up My land.  
       3  They have cast lots for My people,    
      Have given a boy as payment for a harlot,  
      And sold a girl for wine, that they may drink.  
       4  “ Indeed, what have you to do with Me,    
      O Tyre and Sidon, and all the coasts of Philistia?  
      Will you retaliate against Me?  
      But if you retaliate against Me,  
      Swiftly and speedily I will return your retaliation upon your own head;  
       5   Because you have taken My silver and My gold,    
      And have carried into your temples My prized possessions.  
       6  Also the people of Judah and the people of Jerusalem    
      You have sold to the Greeks,  
      That you may remove them far from their borders.  
       7  “ Behold, I will raise them    
      Out of the place to which you have sold them,  
      And will return your retaliation upon your own head.  
Related articlesEgypt, Israel and Palestine: an awkward three-way dance | Khaled Diab (guardian.co.uk)
Violence Expected at Anti-Israel Demonstration in Cairo (israelnationalnews.com)
Ez 38-39 (wbcthomasanna.wordpress.com)
Egypt Remilitarizes the Sinai (atlasshrugs2000.typepad.com)
Islamic Supremacism on the March: Egyptian Parliamentarians Want Eilat (atlasshrugs2000.typepad.com)
Egypt: Muslims Vow Anti-Israel 'Million Man' March, Coptic churches Reject Call for Massive Anti-Israel protest (atlasshrugs2000.typepad.com)
Egypt: Israel's Apology Not Enough (socyberty.com)
The Peace Treaty with Egypt (andyboy100.wordpress.com)
Egypt, Israel and Palestine: an awkward three-way dance - The Guardian (news.google.com)
PressTV: Anti-Israel rallies continue in Egypt (jhaines6.wordpress.com)
Egypt recalls ambassador to Israel (cbc.ca)
Egypt and Israel Move to Halt Growth of Crisis (nytimes.com)
Egypt and Israel Move to Halt Growth of Crisis - New York Times (news.google.com)


Read more













          In 
Bahamas,
East Coast of the United States,
Hurricane Irene,
Long Island,
National Hurricane Center,
New England,
New York City,
North Carolina,
Saffir–Simpson Hurricane Scale,
Storm surge


10:53 AM



0




Irene an extremely dangerous storm surge threat to the mid-Atlantic and New England





Image via Wikipedia Please be sure to keep all these people in your Prayers. 

Be sure to see the full story and article here. 
http://www.wunderground.com/blog/JeffMasters/comment.html?entrynum=1899
Back in 1938, long before satellites, radar, the hurricane hunters, and the modern weather forecasting system, the great New England hurricane of 1938  roared northwards into Long Island, New York at 60 mph, pushing a storm  surge more than 15 feet high to the coast. Hundreds of Americans died  in this greatest Northeast U.S. hurricane on record, the only Category 3  storm to hit the Northeast since the 1800s. Since 1938, there have been  a number of significant hurricanes in the Northeast--the Great Atlantic  hurricane of 1944, Hazel of 1954, Diane of 1955, Donna of 1960, Gloria  of 1985, Bob of 1991, and Floyd of 1999--but none of these were as  formidable as the great 1938 storm. Today, we have a hurricane over the  Bahamas--Hurricane Irene--that threatens to be the Northeast's most  dangerous storm since the 1938 hurricane. We've all been watching the  computer models, which have been steadily moving their forecast tracks  for Irene more to the east--first into Florida, then Georgia, then South  Carolina, then North Carolina, then offshore of North Carolina--and it  seemed that this storm would do what so many many storms have done in  the past, brush the Outer Banks of North Carolina, then head out to sea.  Irene will not do that. Irene will likely hit Eastern North Carolina,  but the storm is going northwards after that, and may deliver an  extremely destructive blow to the mid-Atlantic and New England states. I  am most concerned about the storm surge danger to North Carolina,  Virginia, Maryland, Delaware, New Jersey, New York, and the rest of the  New England coast. Irene is capable of inundating portions of the  coast under 10 - 15 feet of water, to the highest storm surge depths  ever recorded. I strongly recommend that all residents of the  mid-Atlantic and New England coast familiarize themselves with their  storm surge risk. The best source of that information is the National Hurricane Center's Interactive Storm Surge Risk Map,  which allows one to pick a particular Category hurricane and zoom in to  see the height above ground level a worst-case storm surge may go. If  you prefer static images, use wunderground's Storm Surge Inundation Maps.  If these tools indicate you may be at risk, consult your local or state  emergency management office to determine if you are in a hurricane  evacuation zone. Mass evacuations of low-lying areas along the entire  coast of New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, and Virginia are at least 50%  likely to be ordered by Saturday. The threat to the coasts of New York,  Connecticut, Rhode Island, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, and Maine is  less certain, but evacuations may be ordered in those states, as well. Irene  is an extremely dangerous storm for an area that has no experience with  hurricanes, and I strongly urge you to evacuate from the coast if an  evacuation is ordered by local officials. My area of greatest  concern is the coast from Ocean City, Maryland, to Atlantic City, New  Jersey. It is possible that this stretch of coast will receive a direct  hit from a slow-moving Category 2 hurricane hitting during the highest  tide of the month, bringing a 10 - 15 foot storm surge.


Figure 1. The scene in Nassau in the Bahamas at daybreak today. Image credit: Wunderblogger Mike Theiss.

Irene a Category 3 over the Bahamas, headed northwest
Hurricane Irene  tore through the Bahama Islands overnight, bringing hurricane-force  winds, torrential rains, and storm surge flooding to Crooked Island,  Long Island, Rum Cay, and Cat Island, which all took a terrific  pounding. Eleuthera and Abaco Island will receive the full force of  Irene's eyewall today, but the eyewall will miss capital of Nassau.  Winds there were sustained at 41 mph, gusting to 66 mph so far this morning, and I expect these winds will rise to 50 - 55 mph later today. Wunderblogger MIke Theiss  is in Nassau, and will be sending live updates through the day today.  Winds on Grand Bahama Island in Freeport will rise above tropical storm  force late Thursday morning, and increase to a peak of 45 - 55 mph late  Thursday afternoon. Grand Bahama will also miss the brunt of the storm.  Irene is visible on Miami long-range radar, and the outer bands of the hurricane are bringing rain to Southeast Florida this morning.



Hurricane Irene: Obama warns of 'historic' stormhttp://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-us-canada-14686497 President Barack Obama has warned Hurricane Irene, currently looming off the east coast of the US, could be a "historic" storm.Seven states from North Carolina to Connecticut have declared emergencies ahead of Irene's arrival.
Mandatory evacuations have been ordered in parts of four states.
The storm has weakened slightly to category two, with winds  up to 105mph (169km/h), a strength at which it is expected to make  landfall.
Irene, which has already caused havoc in the Caribbean, is  expected to hit the coast of North Carolina on Saturday before  barrelling northwards to Washington and New York City a day later.  
'Don't delay' 	      At 11:00 EDT on Friday (15:00 GMT), the storm was 330 miles south-south-west of Cape Hatteras, North Carolina, the US National Hurricane Center said.
Mr Obama, on holiday in Martha's vineyard, an island on the  Massachusetts coast, said in a statement to reporters: "All indications  point to this being a historic hurricane."
 In Cape Hatteras, North Carolina, residents prepared for evacuation "I cannot stress this highly enough: if you are in the  projected path of this hurricane, you have to take precautions now," he  added.
"Don't wait, don't delay. We all hope for the best, but we  have to be prepared for the worst. All of us have to take this storm  seriously. You need to listen to your state and local officials, and if  you are given an evacuation order, please follow it."
The White House later said Mr Obama was returning early from  his break to Washington to lead the government's response to the storm.
Irene, the first hurricane of the Atlantic season, could  affect up to 65 million people in major cities along the east coast from  Washington to Baltimore, Philadelphia, New York and Boston - the most  densely populated corridor in America.
"We're going to have damages, we just don't know how bad,"  Craig Fugate, head of the US Federal Emergency Management Agency, told  the Associated Press news agency.
"This is one of the largest populations that will be impacted by one storm at one time."

Related articlesHurricane Irene expected to make landfall in the US this weekend (metofficenews.wordpress.com)
Hurricane Irene clears the Bahamas and heads towards North Carolina (cehwiedel.com)
Hurricane Irene: Plan For The Worst, Expect The Best (themoderatevoice.com)
Irene Update (ken_ashford.typepad.com)
Eric Holthaus's Forecasting Profits: Irene looking extremely dangerous (marketwatch.com)
A weaker Hurricane Irene on track for weekend hit in eastern Canada (theglobeandmail.com)
Irene takes aim at Northeast - MiamiHerald.com (news.google.com)
Hurricane Irene update (dailykos.com)
Hurricane Irene hammers Bahamas (video) Where's she going now? (csmonitor.com)
65 million people await Hurricane Irene's wrath (msnbc.msn.com)
Homeland Security Secretary Urges People To Heed Evacuation Orders (huffingtonpost.com)
Hurricane Irene brings rain, heavy seas to coast (ajc.com)
Hurricane Irene's Effects Begin Being Felt in NC (time.com)
Hurricane Irene weakens, stalks U.S. coast (cnn.com)
Irene destroys 90% of homes on one Bahamas island... now it's headed for US (telegraph.co.uk)
Hurricane Irene Is Worse Than You Think [Hurricane Irene] (gizmodo.com)


Read more













          In 
Cairo,
Coptic Orthodox Church of Alexandria,
Egypt,
Hosni Mubarak,
Islamism,
Mary (mother of Jesus),
Salafi,
Salafists


3:26 PM



0




Islamist mob raids church in Cairo





http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c_f782y88Rk&feature=youtu.be
A radical Islamist mob, known as Salafists, storm into Virgin Mary  Church in Cairo, Egypt before setting the building on fire. The video  captures the mob breaking windows and destroying furniture. Notice that  one person is clearly holding a pistol before heading upstairs where  Coptic Christians are hiding. At least 12 people were killed and more  than 200 were wounded in the May 7th attack.

Related articlesEgypt: The Victorious Islamists (nybooks.com)
Egypt uprising art brightens Cairo (msnbc.msn.com)
The West Must Support Egypt's Coptic Christians (americandefenseleague.wordpress.com)
Egypt: Islamists Flood Square in Cairo in Show of Strength (teaandpolitics.wordpress.com)
Egypt Islamists lead Cairo rally (bbc.co.uk)
Egypt could lift burdens on building new churches (catholicnewsagency.com)
Egypt could lift burdens on building new churches (onecatholicnews.wordpress.com)
Attacks on Christians: Can Egypt Deal With Extremist Mobs? (time.com)
Attacks on Christians: Can Egypt Deal With Extremist Mobs? (time.com)
Revolution delayed? (macleans.ca)


Read more













Older Posts




Amazon



















wibiya widget
















Share it
















Followers




































Healing Rain Art Work

Healing Raine

Today's World News Mobile Version
http://todaysworldnewsinfo.blogspot.com/?m=1











Networked Blogs

Follow this blog











Archives






▼ 

2011
(429)



▼ 

August
(39)

Judge upholds ruling for Murfreesboro mosque There...
Signs Of The Times - UN Vote In Sept Could Divide ...
Videos show upstate New York, Vermont Irene floodi...
For Liberty Re-cut - Ron Paul 2012 Handout Full Vi...
Egyptians to hold ‘million-man protest’ against pe...
Irene an extremely dangerous storm surge threat to...
Islamist mob raids church in Cairo
Lockheed Martin presents airship of the future | V...
5.8 earthquake rattles Virginia, and a list of Ear...
Turkey prepares for ground assault on Kurdish rebe...
$2 million bounty put on Moammar Khadafy's head, d...
Rebels, looters target Gadhafi family homes
10 New Ways That the Government Will Be Spying on ...
The Gail Windpower Project in Western Michigan Pro...
Irene grows on path to US Southeast - Weather
New Control Over Privacy on Facebook
Obama Amnesty Begins: Halts Deportations for 300,0...
Islam Overtaking Catholicism in France, Hindu Extr...
6.5 Magnitude Quake Strikes off Eastern Indonesia
Israel hit by Gaza rocket attack | World news
The Obama Regime Wants to Change the Way Farmers F...
Ron Paul - The Revolution & The Anti-War Movement
Amnesty is here and jackpot justice
Muslim terrorists put chokehold on food to Christi...
Churches Can’t Be Built in Streets with Islamic Na...
New DHS rules cancel deportations
Turkish warplanes attack PKK targets in Iraq
Why Facebook Facial Recognition Should Scare You
How Dangerous Is Facebook's Facial Recognition Sof...
Facebook's facial recognition system, why it's sca...
Here we go again: Stocks plunge on economic fear -...
OBAMA APPOINTS MONSANTO'S VICE PRESIDENT AS SENIOR...
Forgiveness; A Frog's Opinion
Romney Courts Tea Party
Rick Perry on Al Gore, the NAFTA Superhighway, and...
14 Reasons Why Rick Perry Would Be A Really, Reall...
China's Attack on Religion - WorldWide Religious N...
Obama calls on Syria’s Assad to “step aside” | The...
Todays World News - Google+








              ►
            


July
(19)

Today's World News Now On Google+
Federal appeals court: Saying “Jesus” during publi...
Escalation in Arizona: Citizen's Firearms confisca...
Hundreds of Thousands Continue Protests Across Syr...
Bomb kills 7 in Oslo and several dead in shooting
Why US Troops Support Ron Paul 2012 | Wake Up From...
Building hurricane pushes waves toward Mexican coa...
Thousands back Tulsa officer ordered to Muslim wor...
Turkey: Erdogan's New Ottoman Region
Report: Iran missiles can now hit targets at 2,000...
6 in 10 Palestinians reject 2-state solution.








              ►
            


June
(69)







              ►
            


May
(99)







              ►
            


April
(67)







              ►
            


March
(70)







              ►
            


February
(25)







              ►
            


January
(41)









              ►
            


2010
(1655)





              ►
            


December
(26)







              ►
            


November
(67)







              ►
            


October
(17)







              ►
            


September
(31)







              ►
            


August
(31)







              ►
            


July
(102)







              ►
            


June
(115)







              ►
            


May
(211)







              ►
            


April
(238)







              ►
            


March
(329)







              ►
            


February
(259)







              ►
            


January
(229)

















Facebook Badge

Dans PageCreate Your Badge











About Me





DanJ


I'm a musician, singer, songwriter, composer and publisher. Aside from still having to work a day job. Stay busy. Love talking to people.

View my complete profile











Amplify

Loading clips for Todays WorldShare what you're reading with Amplify











Blogcatalog















 




Google













Recent Comments

















Subscribe To







Posts
















                Atom
              










Posts












All Comments
















                Atom
              










All Comments







































