
LIVE NOW! First Day Of Weeklong 9/11 Special! LISTEN AND CHAT NOW!
Huge Sale On Mountain House Food Combo! Preparedness Is Key!


  6 Strange Anomalies With The Virginia Earthquake : 









































Tuesday, September 6, 2011


News Feed
Comments




 










Home
Intel Soldiers

Forum
Research
Radio
About Us
Writers
Submit Tip/Intel/Docs
Donate


The Overwatch Report
Intel Hub Store

Preparedness
Protect Your Thyroid


Contact

DMCA/Copyright
Advertise With Us













Featured

Fighting Back/Good News

Food/GMO

Government – Laws – Politics

Gulf Oil Disaster

Health – Environment – Earth

News

International news

The Intel Hub Exclusive & Featured Articles

U.S. News



Satire/Comedy

Topics

Police State – Human Rights – Globalism

War – Terror – Black OPS – Economy









You are here: Home / News / U.S. News / 6 Strange Anomalies With The Virginia Earthquake
6 Strange Anomalies With The Virginia Earthquake


 -->17 Comments








Tweet

By Eric Blair
 Activist Post
August 28, 2011
My first thought upon hearing the news of the rare 5.9 magnitude earthquake in Virginia this week was that it was not a natural occurrence. After all, no one has ever felt or even heard of such a powerful temblor happening in this area in a lifetime.
As is usual for my cynical instincts, I hoped that I was wrong. However, several anomalies indicate that something is not normal with the Virginia quake.
First, I spend a lot of time in the “Ring of Fire” zone and have experienced numerous earthquakes.
By no means does this make me an expert, nor scientifically qualified to analyze earthquakes.  But, as enthusiasts, we looked up every quake we felt over a five-year period — the size, epicenter location, depth, and so on, to get a general sense of placing how it “felt” relative to the official data.
I can categorically state that, of the dozen or so earthquakes that I’ve experienced, including a powerful 6.2, all of them started gently, none of them were over 50 miles away, all of them had depths of several kilometers, and the big ones seemed to have multiple aftershocks reported.
Again, I say this as an observer, not as a scientist, and I’m only providing this background simply to qualify my immediate skepticism.
Furthermore, curiously, the “Great Virginia Quake of 2011,” unprecedented in size and scope, should have grabbed the media headlines and discussion for weeks, but Hurricane Irene has all but wiped the earthquake off the weather map.
The OverWatch Report – Exclusive Content And Intelligence(Ad)
Even as all the storm measurements for Irene show that it will likely be a minor nuisance, maybe some flooding and power outages, multiple states of emergency have been declared, mandatory mass evacuations ordered, and the media is all too eager to spread the panic.  You’d think the east coast of the United States was being invaded.
It feels like a distraction, or perhaps a large but manageable live drill of some kind to make heroes out of our politicians, and FEMA look like a successful agency.
If this manic and surreal coverage of Irene is a deliberate distraction, the anomalies regarding the recent earthquake may have provided sufficient motivation for doing so.
Not to discount other establishment catastrophes that they may want to distract from at this critical time — like the crumbling economy, record political disapproval, and the bungled invasion of Tripoli — but, if any discussion about the unusual nature of the earthquake was allowed one must ponder if some sort of manipulation was involved.
The establishment will not permit such talk, apparently; hence the rapid about-face on earthquake coverage.
Below are six abnormalities about the Virginia earthquake that should warrant further investigation:
Location: The location is the most obvious anomaly for such a powerful quake. Although the area of the U.S. where the earthquake initiated sits on the edge of an ancient tectonic plate called the Craton Plate, it is considered a relatively dormant or settled area.  In other words, it’s not a very active earthquake zone.
Therefore, any noticeable earthquake is unusual, let alone a 5.9 monster that was reportedly felt 500 miles away.
Furthermore, if one is inclined to believe that earthquakes can be manipulated, the epicenter occurring close to Washington D.C. (with all its sensitive military and government infrastructure) raises some suspicions. Admittedly, that’s conjecture, but considering the following oddities it might be more believable by the end of the article.
Unusually Shallow Depth:  The initial hypocenter (depth) of the quake reported by the establishment media was, wait for it, wait for it, only 0.1 miles or about 528 feet (161 meters) deep. That’s right, AFP announced the depth with certainty, “The Pentagon, the US Capitol and monuments in the nation’s capital were all evacuated after the 5.9-magnitude quake, which was shallow with its epicenter only 0.1 miles underground.”
The depth was later adjusted to a more believable 3.7 miles (5.95 kilometers) beneath the surface. Still, shallow-focus quakes usually only occur in areas abundant in seismic activity, like the ring of fire. And the depths of those shallow-focus earthquakes are usually in the tens of kilometers deep.
The Earth’s crust in the Eastern U.S. where “the fault lines are more healed” is described by CBS News as “older and colder” than out West. Which, according to Wikipedia, means it should have been a deep-focus earthquake with a depth ranging from 300 to 700 kilometers.  Certainly not one barely below the Earth’s surface.
Odd Seismograph Reading:  A reporter from Press Core received an anonymous email from someone claiming to be in the U.S. Air Force that stated the Virginia earthquake “wasn’t a natural earthquake and not a HAARP earthquake.”
The reporter was instructed to find a seismograph of the Washington DC area earthquake and compare it to a past earthquakes and seismic readings of the alleged underground nuclear test by North Korea that resulted in a 4.7 magnitude tremor at a depth of zero.

Seismograph of Virginia quake in green — Washington and Lee University (85 miles from epicenter)
Press Core writes, the green lines indicate the blunt tremor that was felt in Washington D.C. and the black lines are a transparent overlay of a normal earthquake seismograph from a pdf file from Virginia Division Mineral Resources on Earthquakes.
That file describes a typical natural occurring earthquake as:
When a fault ruptures, energy is released in the form of seismic waves. The first waves to reach the earth’s surface are primary or ‘P’ waves (Figure 2). P waves are compressional waves that travel at a speed of about four miles per second near the surface – faster as depth increases. The next waves to reach the earth’s surface are secondary or ‘S’ waves. S waves are shear waves that move at a speed of about 1.5 miles per second.
P and S waves are body waves that travel through the earth much like sonar waves travel through water. Surface waves, which are slower than S waves, travel along the surface of the earth much like waves at the surface of the ocean. S waves and surface waves cause the most destruction at the earth’s surface.
The article concludes; “What is missing from the seismograph for the Washington DC area 5.8 magnitude earthquake are the primary or ‘P’ waves. All earthquakes that are the direct result of fault rupture have these primary or ‘P’ waves. Nuclear detonations do not.”
Distance Felt: As my introduction stated, I’ve never “felt” an earthquake whose epicenter was farther than 50 miles away.  Of course, this doesn’t mean that it’s not possible, as clearly this was felt upwards of 500 miles from the epicenter.
The CBS article quoted above that referred to the crust as “older and colder” also uses that argument to explain why tremors were felt so far away: “The East is far less seismically active — but when earthquakes do hit, that hard ground is far more effective at conducting the seismic waves. When you hit it, it rings like a bell,” said Christopher Scholz a professor of geophysics at Columbia University’s Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory.”
This seems a bit contradictory given the shallow depth of the quake, but there may be some validity to the “bell” theory.  The fact remains, earthquakes whose effects travel long distances are uncommon, hence the reason for the CBS article about why the quake was so “widely felt.”
‘Remarkably Low’ Number of Aftershocks:  Amy Vaughan, a geophysicist with the USGS Earthquake Information Center in Colorado told CBS News that ”For the size earthquake that occurred, I think the number of aftershocks so far has been remarkably low.”
Don Blakeman, another geophysicist at the Earthquake Information Center, added “Typically, the larger the quake, the longer and the greater extent of aftershocks. Shallow earthquakes like the one in Virginia also tend to generate numerous aftershocks.”  The lack of aftershocks led the USGS to report that the Virginia quake may be just a foreshock of something larger to come.
A foreshock is an earthquake that occurs before a larger seismic event (the mainshock) and is related to it in both time and space.  I’m not sure what this means other than it’s just another abnormality about this quake.
Instantaneously Knocked Irene Off Course: Kevin Hayden and Glenn Kreisberg reported “Coincidentally, the time frame leading up to Virginia/DC/New York area experiencing freak seismic activity, Hurricane Irene begins to weaken and move off course, avoiding its initial path of Havanna, inland Florida, the Carolinas, and eventually, the Washington, DC area.
The newly projected paths show that it may barely clip the eastern coast, if at all. Just as Ophelia did when it threatened the same region.”
Irene stalled and changed directions similar to Ophelia seen in the graphic provided.  Clearly, these types of drastic changes are not a natural path for hurricanes.
A few articles have speculated that HAARP earthquake weapons were to blame, in conjunction with manipulating hurricane Irene. Indeed, when one knows even the basic capabilities of HAARP, this does not seem too far-fetched.  Press Core seems to think the seismic data proves it was more similar to an underground nuclear detonation.
One thing is for sure, the mysterious characteristics of the Virginia quake seem to indicate that it was not a typical earthquake.
Comment on what you think about these strange anomalies, or please provide solid evidence to explain this unusual evidence.
LifeSilver – Silver Sol – When Antibiotics Fail(Ad)






































 













Join The Exclusive Intel Soldier Mailing List And Weekly Newsletter







Email: 









Comments
17 Responses to “6 Strange Anomalies With The Virginia Earthquake”




 anonymous says: 

			August 28, 2011 at 10:52 PM 
I think we may be on to something. Let’s wait and see, those who follow the truth see right through the BS.

Reply 





 King Willie says: 

			August 29, 2011 at 8:46 AM 
I like turtles

Reply 







 Seldom Scene says: 

			August 29, 2011 at 1:32 AM 
Scalar weapon maybe? This quake raised my suspicions. Not normal at all. I lived in the area and went to high school near where it happened. It was funny that the USGS designated Farmville and Mineral, Virginia as reference points, considering there are much larger towns close by to the epicenter.

Reply 





 Lance says: 

			August 29, 2011 at 6:52 AM 
There have been statements from people like Warren Buffet and others that something in the way of a nuclear ‘event’ would occur in the US in the near future.  
“We’re going to have something of a major nuclear event in this country,” Mr Buffet said following the annual general meeting of his company Berkshire Hathaway.  “It will happen – whether it will happen in 10 years or 10 minutes, or 50 years… it’s virtually a certainty.”(http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/business/1970409.stm)
The BBC news article also stated, “The risks of chemical or biological attacks are also high, with Washington and New York the most likely targets in the US, he said.”

Reply 





 Lance says: 

			August 29, 2011 at 8:50 AM 
Okay, I’ll do this again!  Warren Buffet said that, “…something in the way of a nuclear event will occur in this country…”.  This can be confirmed by any number of news sources, so do the research yourselves, please.
Something in the way?  What does Buffet know and when did he know it?
Tesla weapons technologies can cause all sorts of ‘events’ to occur, including earthquakes, which can cause tsunamis, alter weather patterns to cause floods and droughts, and nuclear like explosions without the physical weapon!
Why are so many nuclear power plants being affected?
Any good investigator looks for patterns and motives in any investigation.  Certainly, if one takes into account Tesla weapons technologies being involved, a pattern and motive is emerging!  The BIG question is WHO and/or WHAT is behind what is happening.

Reply 





 Dan Williams says: 

			August 29, 2011 at 9:20 AM 
Need more info on subject, however could this be connected in any way with FEMA and the US Dept. of Navy’s projected New Madrid fault zone report and corresponding maps showing the Miss. Valley flooding basically cutting America in half, due to large earthquake.
What worries me is that many DUMB’s in DC area could these deep underground bases have been attacked or perhaps sealed in?

Reply 





 MC says: 

			August 29, 2011 at 1:50 PM 
Maybe not ‘attacked’ or ‘sealed in’ intentionally Dan – but perhaps moreso by accident… 
…maybe one or more of the large thermonuclear excavation machines reportedly used to create these UG bases melted down and detonated…?
The original ‘shallow depth’ and proximity to DC could be 2 strong clues…

Reply 





 Lance says: 

			August 30, 2011 at 12:51 PM 
Maybe the underground ‘location’ was the target of an electromagnetic weapon?  Can energy be deposited in any particular place in space/time and build up enough to eventually cause an earthquake, or an explosion that appears to be an earthquake?

Reply 









 Lance says: 

			August 29, 2011 at 9:44 AM 
One more comment on this subject.  Found a comment on an anti-nuclear website that seems to make sense, at first.
“Mechanized civilization has just reached the ultimate stage of barbarism. In a near future, we will have to choose between mass suicide and intelligent use of scientific conquests. This can no longer be simply a prayer; it must become an order which goes upward from the peoples to the governments, an order to make a definitive choice between hell and reason.”Albert Camus August 8, 1945,”
http://nuclear-news.net/2010/05/29/warren-buffett-certain-of-a-nuclear-event-sooner-or-later/
One BIG PROBLEM with this statement.  Human ‘reason’ is fatally flawed!  Its utter and complete hypocrisy to think that by creating and using an even more powerful weapons technology, i.e., Tesla weapons, to apparently attempt to reduce and eliminate nuclear power plants and nuclear weapons, that they are somehow ‘better humans’!  (Built in “plausible deniability” comes in here!  Few, if any, will believe this!)  No, it is THEY who have reached a new height of “barbarism”, couched in the cliches of creating a ‘global democracy’, a ‘global collective’, or the ‘hive mind’, or the ‘global brain’!  Who are THEY?  Watch the news!

Reply 





 birdie says: 

			August 29, 2011 at 12:01 PM 
I like your analysis, however, you make some innaccurate assumptions. Quakes over 50 miles away are definitely felt. I felt the 1992 Landers earthquake in INTENSELY in my 4th floor apt. in Hollywood. And my inlaws felt the Northridge quake in 1994 INTENSELY from their 10th floor apt. in LAS VEGAS. The 6.8 Northridge quake was particularly intense (I was in Sherman Oaks) at a depth of only 11 miles. I don’t remember the depth of Landers, but it was around a 7.2.

Reply 





 Jim Shaffer says: 

			August 29, 2011 at 3:53 PM 
I personally live 34 miles from the epicenter.  NO radiation abnormalities were detected by me and I have the equipment to test for it.  Not sure about the AFP report on the pentagon announcing .1 deep as well.  Within 4 minutes of the event I had conformation of 5.8 at 3.7 miles deep and that info was available to anyone with a smart phone via the earthquake alert app.  The lack of aftershocks has me a little worried. As stated above we our ground is older and colder than on the left coast. But deluge the ground with hurricane rain and bigger quake will spell a lot of damage for the East coast.

Reply 





 Phil says: 

			August 30, 2011 at 5:29 AM 
It is also worth noting that the 9.0 quake in Japan was at  38.322 deg N and the one in Virginia was at 37.936 deg N ie almost the exact same latitude.
Also, on Google Earth the shortest distance (through Alaska) between the two locations is 10,609 kilometres or 103 x 103 kilometres.
Note here that the ONLY divisors are 103. Note also that the 10,609 kilometres is the exact figure I measured the first time. ie I didn’t fiddle with it at all.
The day gap is 165 days or 33 x 5 days.

Reply 





 Lance says: 

			August 30, 2011 at 4:53 PM 
Once again, electromagnetic weapons do exist, and have existed for some time.  Find out WHO controls these weapons and you have the answer to the ‘strange anomalies’ in this event, and other events.  Might “…whole armies…” be “…utterly swept away…” using this type of weapons technology?

Reply 





 Lance says: 

			August 30, 2011 at 5:10 PM 
Lets just suppose that those who wish to reduce and eliminate nuclear power generation plants and nuclear weapons have the ‘technology’ to do so.  How would they accomplish the task?

Reply 





 Jim Shaffer says: 

			September 1, 2011 at 1:09 PM 
Just sent an email to the Washington and Lee University geology dept. Not sure if it will be answered but you never know. Just a side note. Not far from where the school is the state is rebuilding I81 and is blasting in that area. My hunch….that recording was taken by the school but not of the earthquake. It is definitely an explosion but not a nuke.

Reply 







Trackbacks
Check out what others are saying about this post...




6 extrañas anomalías con el terremoto de Virginia « Fin del mundo says: 

			August 29, 2011 at 1:36 PM 
[...] Eric Blair Activista mensaje 28 de agosto [...]

Reply 





Playing God | The Golden Rule says: 

			August 31, 2011 at 7:28 AM 
[...] 6 Strange Anamolies with the Virginia Earthquake [...]

Reply 




Speak Your Mind

The views expressed in the comments published on theintelhub.com are those of the comment writers alone. They do not necessarily represent the views or opinions of theintelhub.com, our sponsors, or affiliates. The comments section is provided for the free exchange of ideas and opinions. With that being said, violent or racist comments will not be tolerated.

Sponsored Link: The FDA is moving to BAN most natural health supplements. – Get them while you still can! Wellness Resources – High Quality Nutritional Supplement

Sponsored Link: Global Sun Oven with Preparedness Package - Essential Preparedness Item! Prepare While You Still Can With The Global Sun Oven And Preparedness Package!


Sponsored Link: Make Money NOW With The Hottest Reseller Program Going!



Click here to cancel reply.



Name (required)

Mail (will not be published) (required)

Website












 




The Intel Solider Mailing List -- Daily Alerts 







Email: 








 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


 News Flash 
Intel Hub And Bob Tuskin Radio Show 9/11 Special ALL WEEK!
DHS: We Lost Our Own Explosives During Live Drill In Phoenix
Dutchsinse Youtube Account Shut Down
Labor Day 2011: What Are We Celebrating? The Lack Of Jobs In America?
Paragon Medical Flying the Flag of Communist China In Indiana
Central Banks, BIS and Goldman Sachs Coercion
Establishment Media Re-Brands Racist, Bloodthirsty Rebels as Freedom Fighters
Saudi Flag Flown Higher Than American Flag At Colorado Elementary School
WikiLeaks: Israel Warns Chemical Weapons Will Be Used Against Peaceful Palestine Protests
Cruise Missle Hits Pentagon Video Is At Least Partially Fake
IDF To Simulate Attack On Dimona Nuclear Reactor
Israel Vs Jews –  Learn The Difference


 

 

 

 


Intel Hub Featured Videos:





Intel Archive  Select Month  September 2011  (42)
 August 2011  (364)
 July 2011  (304)
 June 2011  (243)
 May 2011  (262)
 April 2011  (245)
 March 2011  (264)
 February 2011  (174)
 January 2011  (215)
 December 2010  (223)
 November 2010  (225)
 October 2010  (224)
 September 2010  (264)
 August 2010  (372)
 July 2010  (357)
 June 2010  (210)
 May 2010  (196)
 April 2010  (25)
 March 2010  (57)


 





 









Copyright © 2010-2011 &middotThe Intel Hub &middot All Rights Reserved




Advertising on The Intel Hub may not represent the views and opinions of this website and its contributors. No endorsement of products and services advertised is either expressed or implied unless otherwise noted, I.E articles and commericals that specifically state our endorsement.


Privacy Policy And DisclaimerDMCA/Copyright

End The Lie!

Health statements that appear on The Intel Hub have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. No products on The Intel Hub are intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease.


FAIR USE NOTICE. Many of the stories on this site contain copyrighted material whose use has not been specifically authorized by the copyright owner. We are making this material available in an effort to advance the understanding of environmental issues, human rights, economic and political democracy, and issues of social justice. We believe this constitutes a 'fair use' of the copyrighted material as provided for in Section 107 of the US Copyright Law which contains a list of the various purposes for which the reproduction of a particular work may be considered fair, such as criticism, comment, news reporting, teaching, scholarship, and research. If you wish to use such copyrighted material for purposes of your own that go beyond 'fair use'...you must obtain permission from the copyright owner.











