Aftershocks continue following Virginia earthquake last week that rattled East Coast - The Washington Post









Print Subscription


Conversations
Today's Paper






Going Out Guide




Jobs




Cars




Real Estate




Rentals




Classifieds







Home


Politics





Campaign 2012
			


Congress
			


Courts &
				Law


The Fed Page


Health Care








				Polling
			


White House
			


Who Runs Gov


Blogs & Columns





Top Blogs

The Fix | Chris Cillizza
2chambers | Felicia Sonmez
Federal Eye | Ed O’Keefe
Fact Checker | Glenn Kessler
















Opinions





All Opinions


PostPartisan


Left-Leaning


Right-Leaning


Toles
				Cartoons
			








				Telnaes
				Animations


Local


Columnist Index












Local





DC: 
Politics
| News


MD: 
Politics
| Communities


VA: 
Politics
| Communities


Crime
			


Education
			







On Faith/Local
			


Obituaries
			


Traffic & Commuting
			


Weather
			


Blogs & Columns
			


The Root DC
			





Top Blogs

Crime Scene | Bicyclists open fire near Hill
Capital Weather Gang | Your Labor Day forecast
Special Report | Back to School 2011
Going Out Gurus | Free and easy outings









Sports






				Redskins/NFL



				Capitals/NHL


Wizards/NBA


Nationals/MLB



				DC United/Soccer








				Colleges


AllMetSports


Other Sports


Blogs & Columns





Top Blogs

Capitals Insider| Katie Carrera
Nationals Journal| Adam Kilgore
Soccer Insider| Steven Goff
The Insider| Mike Jones









National





Corrections


Energy & Environment


Health & Science


Higher Education


National Security







On Faith
			


On Leadership


Innovations


Blogs & Columns





Top Blogs

Ideas@Innovations
Post Leadership
Under God
Checkpoint Washington









World





Africa
			


The
				Americas


Asia &
				Pacific


Europe
			


Middle East
			







National Security


War Zones
			


Special Reports


Checkpoint Washington












Business






				Economy
			


Industries


Local Business


Markets


Policy
				&
				Regulation







Technology
			


World
				Business


Blogs & Columns


Innovations


Special Reports





Top Blogs

Ezra Klein
Post Tech | Cecilia Kang
Faster Forward
Political Economy









Investigations
















Lifestyle





Advice
			


Carolyn Hax
			


Food
			


Home & Garden
			


Style
			







Travel
			


Weddings
			


Wellness
			


Magazine


KidsPost





Top Blogs

On Parenting | Janice D’Arcy
Arts Post | Jacqueline Trescott
The Checkup | Jennifer LaRue Huget & Rob Stein
All We Can Eat | Food section









Entertainment





Books


Celebrities


Comics
			


Going Out Guide


Horoscopes







Movies


Museums
			


Puzzles
			


Theater & Dance


TV
			





Top Blogs

Reliable Source | Roxanne Roberts & Amy Argetsinger
TV Column | Lisa de Moraes
Celebritology | Jen Chaney
Click Track | Chris Richards & David Malitz









Multimedia





Innovations



				Photos
			



				Videos
			



























The Washington Post
Make us your start page

















Personalize




The Washington Post












D.C. 
			
Maryland
			
Virginia
			
Crime
			
Education
			
On Faith/Local
			
Obituaries
			
Traffic & Commuting
			
Weather
			
Blogs & Columns
			
The Root DC
			






In the News


Pot suppliers


Bicyclists open fire


Missing dog


Back to School


Life after Sept. 11





























Aftershocks continue following Virginia earthquake last week that rattled East Coast





Text Size

Print
E-mail
Reprints












						By  Associated Press, 







RICHMOND, Va. — The 5.8-magnitude earthquake that rattled the East Coast on Aug. 23 continues to produce aftershocks as the tally for damages near its central Virginia epicenter has grown to more than $17 million to help rebuild one communities’ homes, schools, businesses and government buildings.
At least 18 aftershocks ranging in magnitude from 4.5 to as little as 2.0 followed the strongest earthquake to strike the East Coast since World War II, according to the U.S. Geological Survey. Other smaller quakes that wouldn’t necessarily register on seismographs also could have taken place since last week.




 Loading...

Comments


Weigh In
Corrections?



























Two of the latest aftershocks listed on the USGS website occurred late Monday night. They included one that happened during an evening meeting attended by the Louisa County Public Schools superintendent to discuss how the home to the quake’s epicenter would deal with overcrowding because it had to close two schools for the year due to structural damage.Aftershocks, smaller tremors that take place in the weeks and possibly months following a major earthquake like the one centered in Virginia, are usually felt in a smaller area than the original quake. Typically the larger the quake, the longer and the greater extent of aftershocks. The initial quake was unusual for many residents in Virginia and along the East Coast, putting some on edge and unsure of how to react when they experience an aftershock. “Both the quantity and the magnitudes of these aftershocks are definitely in line with what one would expect,” said Amy Vaughan, a geophysicist with the National Earthquake Information Center in Colorado. “Had the same size earthquake occurred, for instance, in the western United States ... the number of aftershocks we would have seen would’ve probably been far greater.”Vaughan said that because of the geography and landscape along the East Coast, the aftershocks are being more widely felt. The largest of the aftershocks so far — a 4.5-magnitude quake last Thursday — was felt by people in nearly 1,100 zip codes from New England to the north, Georgia to the south, and Illinois to the west, according to the USGS. Tens of millions of people from Georgia to Canada were jolted by the initial tremor.It is difficult to know exactly how many aftershocks will occur, how large they will be, or how long the aftershocks will last. But Vaughan noted that Japan is still experiencing numerous aftershocks since the catastrophic 9.0 quake on March 11. That likely won’t be the case in Virginia, but there’s no way to know for sure because every earthquake is different, Vaughan said.Damage assessment teams are still in the field tallying the cost of the quake’s destruction in Louisa County, the epicenter of the earthquake. Teams had to shut down to deal with Hurricane Irene, although county spokeswoman Amanda Reidelbach said the area “fared just fine” in the weekend storm.The latest numbers in the county show about $9 million in damage to residential structures in the area, $800,000 to commercial businesses, as well as $500,000 in damages to government structures. Reidelbach said the county also is expecting to be responsible for about $7 million to repair and replace the two schools damaged in the quake.Virginia emergency officials could not provide any statewide figures and deferred questions to Louisa County, where Virginia’s damages were likely to be highest.Louisa County also has become the center of attention for some members of the USGS, as well as researchers from several other universities and groups studying the earthquake. Reidelbach said while they’re being told to expect more aftershocks for weeks, the shaking ground there has not become an experience to which the area has become accustomed. “I think that there’s still a high level of anxiety,” Reidelbach said, adding that they felt another aftershock on Tuesday morning. “I don’t think that they’re getting used to it. ... Every time we have one, it’s a little unnerving.”___Michael Felberbaum can be reached at http://www.twitter.com/MLFelberbaum .___Online:U.S. Geological Survey: http://earthquake.usgs.gov/earthquakes/Copyright 2011 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.


















EmailTumblr
Reddit
Stumbleupon
Digg
Delicious










???initialComments:true! pubdate:08/30/2011 08:47 EDT! commentPeriod:3! commentEndDate:9/2/11 8:47 EDT! currentDate:9/5/11 8:50 EDT! allowComments:false! displayComments:false!






Weigh In

Discussion Policy


About Discussions, Badges


 


 








Newest first


Oldest first


Most Recommended first












SuperFan
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about Washington area sports and teams.
If your comments or those of another user measure up, please let Post editors know.
Get a badgeNominate someone for a badge


Culture Connoisseur
Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on the arts, lifestyle and entertainment.
If your comments or those of another user measure up, please let Post editors know.
Get a badgeNominate someone for a badge


Fact Checker
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.
If your comments or those of another user measure up, please let Post editors know.
Get a badgeNominate someone for a badge


Washingtologist
Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.
If your comments or those of another user measure up, please let Post editors know.
Get a badgeNominate someone for a badge


Post Writer
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.


Post Forum
Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on politics, national and international affairs.
If your comments or those of another user measure up, please let Post editors know.
Get a badgeNominate someone for a badge


World Watcher
World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on international affairs.
If your comments or those of another user measure up, please let Post editors know.
Get a badgeNominate someone for a badge


Post Recommended
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.


You must be logged in to report a comment.
Sign in here


You must be logged in to recommend a comment.
Sign in here


Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.All comments are posted in the All Comments tab.
More about badgesGet a badge

To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused".  If paused, you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.



Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts appear here, as well as posts by staff writers.




+ SHARE THIS DEBATE














Slate


Slate V: Captcha Talks Back
The 9/11 Commission Report in pictures: A graphic adaptation by Sid Jacobson and Ernie Colón
Chad Harbach's The Art of Fielding: Baseball and bliss at a small liberal arts college.




























Connect with PostLocal
































News Tips: News tips? Questions? Contact us.





News Tips: News tips? Questions? Contact us.



Facebook: Become a fan of PostLocal



Twitter: Follow @PostLocal on Twitter!



RSS: Subscribe to one of our RSS news feed topics



Alerts and Newsletters: Via text message or email



Mobile: Washington Post on the go



App Store: View our iPhone applications



 



Network News      
   				Hide this






Most Popular
Friends' Activity
Most Popular
Most Tweeted
Twitter Activity





Most Popular Right Now






Your Friends’ Most Recent Activity



















Follow The Post:
Facebook
Twitter
View More Activity







The Post Most: LocalMost-viewed stories, videos and galleries int he past two hours



Most Popular

Bicyclists open fire near Capitol Hill
Democrats in Congress gird for fight over highway funding
Va. court to consider whether to toss incest conviction of former King confidant
U.S. News college rankings are denounced but not ignored
U.S. colleges seek foreign students for intellectual stimulus, bottom line




Top Videos

Warner Williams performs 'Hey Bartender, There's a Bug in My Beer'
How to make $25 million dollars in a single day
Martin Luther King, Jr. Memorial unveiled
Buddhist monks from Koreas hold joint service
D.C. census: Residents see their neighborhoods changing




Top Galleries

A tough summer, but Washington area found ways to enjoy it
A tough summer, but Washington area found ways to enjoy it
Magnitude-5.8 earthquake shakes D.C.
Washington area, nearby coastal regions deal with effects of Hurricane Irene
Traveling with the Kitchi Gammi Club





Local Features

DataPost
Dig into the numbers behind our stories



Washingtology
Going deep in D.C.



Daily Gripe
You vent. We get some answers. 























Featured Advertiser LinksOil Spill, Mesothelioma Class Action, Fosamax Fracture, Asbestos & Veterans , Actos Bladder Cancer>>Topamax Side Effects, Mesothelioma Treatment, Yaz Blood Clot, Asbestos cancer, Actos, Mesothelioma Symptoms>>Join Pres. Obama. It's time to do it again.>>Are you in? Join Barack Obama's campaign now.>>Help Pres. Obama keep moving America forward.>>Join the 2012 campaign at BarackObama.com>>Looking to buy a home? Visit TWP Real Estate section for the latest open houses.>>Make Your Vanguard Investing More Profitable - Free Research Report Reveals Best & Worst Funds>>







































Ways you can get us

Mobile
Apps
Newsletter & alerts
RSS
Post Store
Facebook
Photo Store
Twitter
Washington Post Live



The Washington Post

About Us
Work for us
Community Relations
PostPoints
Corrections/Suggestions
Archive
Contact the Ombudsman
Report a problem



Web site

Make us your homepage
Digital Guidelines

Newspaper

Subscribe
Home delivery service
e-Replica
Reprints



Advertise

In the newspaper
On the web site
Mobile
Events

The Washington Post Company

Post Company web sites



Partners

Slate
Who Runs Gov
Express Night Out
Captial Business
El Tiempo Latino
The Root
Foreign Policy
Trove


Post Tickets
Capitol Deal
Service Alley
Post Master Class
WP Live
Student Advisory



© 1996- The Washington Post
User Agreement and Privacy Policy
Rights and Permissions


Help
Contact Us
Ad Choices


















