	Earthquake map shows epicenter in central Virginia | 						NJ.com














Sign in | Register for free












Sign in to NJ.com



Username


 

Password




Remember me

I forgot my username or password »




			Don't have an account?
			Register now for free, or sign in with any of these services:




AIM  
				Google  
				OpenID













Site Search




Search Local Business Listings
























Home
News
Weather
Sports
Entertainment
Living
Interact
Jobs
Autos
Real Estate
Rentals
Classified Ads
Deals


News
Business
Columns
Education
National
Obits
Opinion/NJ Voices
Politics
Star-Ledger
Town pages
Forums
More







  

  







Home > New Jersey Real-Time News > Weather


Earthquake map shows epicenter in central Virginia
Published: Tuesday, August 23, 2011,  4:23 PM     Updated: Wednesday, August 24, 2011, 11:08 AM


	By 
	
	
	
	
		
			
	
		
			
	
		
	
	
	
	
	Star-Ledger Staff

The Star-Ledger
Follow















3



Tweet










Share
close

Google Buzz
Digg
Stumble Upon
Fark
Reddit



Share
Email
Print






View full sizeU.S. Geological Survey
The U.S. Geological Survey has posted this map of the 5.9-magnitude earthquake that hit central Virginia just before 2 p.m. today, sending tremors up and down the East Coast.
The yellow glow represents the area where potential damage is deemed "light" and perceived shaking is "moderate."
The quake’s frequency hit the geology of the region just right, like a tuning fork, and reverberated outward, said Alexander Gates, the chairman of earth and environmental sciences at Rutgers-Newark, and an earthquake expert. But there’s no likely danger for aftershocks of the Virginia quake, which will be significantly more minor, he said.
“That was pretty good, huh? I was impressed,” Gates said. “You don’t get earthquakes like that so often on the East Coast.”
Though small earthquakes occur in New Jersey all the time, earthquake experts said today's shaking was highly unusual.

"It's probably the largest one people have felt in New Jersey in decades," said Martha Withjack, professor of geological sciences at Rutgers University in New Brunswick.

The Virginia-centered earthquake was felt all along the East Coast because of the nature of the area's rocks, Withjack said. Unlike the West Coast, where the underlying rocks are broken from frequent quakes, the older rocks beneath New Jersey are long and solid. That means the shaking in Virginia was easily transferred to New Jersey.

"The energy all the way from Virginia got transferred to us," Withjack said.

The magnitude of the earthquake was a 5.8, according to the USGS.
Why East Coast quakes are different from West Coast quakes
The USGS is also expected to release official intensity numbers, which use a different scale to document how intensely the shaking was at various points along the East Coast. The intensity scale goes from 1 to 12, with 12 being the highest. It is likely New Jersey was at a 3, which is considered the low end of the scale with no damage, Withjack said.

"California wouldn't even blink about this," Withjack said.

According to the scale, an intensity of 3 is described as: "Felt quite noticeably by people indoors, especially on the upper floors of buildings. Many do not recognize it as an earthquake. Standing motor cars may rock slightly. Vibration similar to the passing of a truck. Duration estimated."

There is a chance this earthquake was a precursor to a larger quake that will happen within a few days. But the chances are very small.

"It's not likely," Withjack said.
Click here to view more maps from the U.S. Geological Survey.

More earthquake coverage:




Video: Earthquake hits New Jersey, Newark city hall evacuated
A 5.8 earthquake in Virginia was felt across the state causing evacuations in Newark. Outside City Hall, Mayor Cory Booker let workers know it was safe to return to the building. (Video by Michael Monday & Nyier Abdou/The Star-Ledger)

Watch video






• N.J. nuke plants report 'unusual event' after quake
• Earthquake video: Star-Ledger footage as earthquake shakes newsroom
• Phone providers warn of call delays after quake, advise customers to use text and email
• Newark City Hall evacuated, as city feels effect of 5.9-magnitude earthquake in Virginia
• Earthquake rocks New Jersey and New York
• Large earthquake hits Virginia, shakes ground up and down East coast
• NYC buildings evacuated after quake rattles city
• Parts of Washington, D.C. evacuated after quake shakes nation's capital




Related topics: earthquake-nj, rutgers-university







Sponsored Links
















Share this story









Print
Email
Story tools









More stories in New Jersey Real-Time News


Previous storyFlights resume at Newark and JFK airports after earthquake


Next storyBail raised to $3M for Boonton man accused of killing wife







Copyright 2011 NJ.com. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.









3


Comments Feed





				View: 
				
					Oldest first | Newest first















	
		
	
	
	
	
	concerned  citizen

August 23, 2011 at  4:52PM

Follow



felt  like a  very  large  garbage truck  or truck was coming down my street,but NO trucks in sight!
 the floor and every thing really began to vibrate for about  a minute....thought maybe there was an explosion in basement??? so got up but then stopped so went back to doing what i was doing thinking i finally lost my mind but then heard about 45mins later on radio/then internet about earthquake..
i am still losing my mind but thats a whole other posting

Inappropriate? Alert us.
Reply
Post new















	
		
	
	
	
	
	replaceNJSC

August 23, 2011 at  5:27PM

Follow



Isn't CIA headquarters in Langley, VIRGINIA?!?!?
It's that darn Tesla earthquake machine the CIA has been testing. 
The conspiracy theorists were right!  :-)

Inappropriate? Alert us.
Reply
Post new















	
		
	
	
	
	
	RahwayVet

August 23, 2011 at  9:51PM

Follow



I was on the second floor of a steel framed (low-bid) warehouse in Edison and we must have caught a harmonic frequency. The floor and ceiling started jumping up and down, and everything on the desks was whispering. Then the building started squeaking like a train leaving the station: steel on steel. We heard a rumble, and I looked at the guys I was with and we all decided to run outside. This vibration built over about a minute. The first thought we had was to get under the desks (smart), but we decided to get the heck out of there (sound? but stupid?). When we got outside, we still had "sea legs." and nothing seemed quite right. I think we also may have been in a reflective area of bedrock with clay/sand on top. The entire episode lasted several minutes but took far longer to get over.
I think us East Coast People are just not raised right to know the difference between "no big deal" (which never happens here anyhow) and "the End Of The World" (which could happen everywhere).
I seem to recall from student days that intra-tectonic earthquakes have a much higher resonant frequency than the earthquakes they have in CA an AK (*between plates).
Our building caught a good frequency--just like a tuning fork.

Inappropriate? Alert us.
Reply
Post new






















Post a comment (You may use HTML tags for style)
					

















You must accept the terms of service before you can post a comment.






Post a comment

Sign in to NJ.com






Username



Password





 Remember me?




I forgot my username or password »




Don't have an account?
Register now for free, or sign in with any of these services:



AIM
Google
 OpenID




































More New Jersey Real-Time News
  Most Comments Most Recent  
New Jersey Real-Time News stories with the most comments in the last 7 days.


451N.J. unions, public workers sue to stop pension, benefits overhaul


236PolitiFact New Jersey: N.J. students do better on AP tests than students from any other state


214Mixed N.J. response to President Obama's visit


152Poll: 54 percent of N.J. residents approve of Gov. Christie


130N.J. has the lowest number of public workers in 8 years, analysis shows

















Most Active UsersWhat's this?

Users We Love



NJ.com user Zax Buzz 
						
							He posted over 50 photos from the Hurricane Irene flooding in New Brunswick
						
					

More Users We Love






Connect with NJ.comWhat's this?







All Facebook & Twitter accounts »

















From Our Advertisers












Advertise With Us »














Popular TagsWhat's this?



















Site Search




Search Local Business Listings



















Site Map| Advertise | Contact
 Make us your home page



Home | News | Weather | Sports | Entertainment | Living | Interact | Jobs | Autos | Real Estate | Classifieds | Deals | Place an Ad




Your Photos
Your Videos
Blogs
Forums
NJ Shore
NJ Weddings




Post a Job
Post a Free Classified Ad
Sell Your Car
Sell/Rent Your Home
Apartments & Rentals
Claim Your Business   Listing for Free




Business
High School Sports
NJ Lottery
New Jersey Politics
Obituaries
Pets







Subscribe to our content (RSS)
Sign up for news alerts
NJ.com Twitter feed
Ledger Live vodcast
View NJ.com mobile site
View mobile product offerings










Special home delivery offers!


The Star-Ledger | The Times, Trenton | The Jersey Journal | Gloucester Co. TimesThe News of Cumberland County | Today's Sunbeam



© 2011 New Jersey On-Line LLC. All Rights Reserved (About Us). Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement. Please read our Privacy Policy. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Contact interactivity management.




























