Virginia quake: What the numbers say, and what you experience - CSMonitor.com


 Skip to: Content
	Skip to: Site Navigation
	Skip to: Search




















World


USA


Commentary


Business


Environment


Innovation


Science


Culture


Books










All USA Topics
Elections
Politics
Foreign Policy
Justice
Military
Society
Education
Sports
Latest News Wires









Subscribe and save 71
%


 













Advertisements



















Virginia quake: What the numbers say, and what you experience 

Virginia quake: It was a magnitude 5.9. Earthquake metrics help us compare different earthquakes, but what does a 5.0 versus a 6.0 actually feel like? 











Earthquake damage: Tony Williams surveys damage at his Mineral, Virginia home after a 5.9 earthquake struck Tuesday. The earthquake was 5.9, but what does that feel like?
Steve Helber/AP


Enlarge











Tweet

0 






							By 
		
	
				
				
	Chris Richardson, Staff /
						August 24, 2011
		

New York
Immediately after the earthquake in Virginia, Tuesday, the Twittersphere was all abuzz about individuals' experiences.
Skip to next paragraph







Graphic:

							Map of Virginia earthquake
					
(Rich Clabaugh/Staff)	








Related stories



			East Coast earthquake: How does a 5.9 temblor happen in Virginia?
	



			Virginia quake: What was the damage on the East Coast? [VIDEO]
	



			Virginia quake: Top five political jokes on Twitter
	


Topics

Earthquakes
Accidents and Disasters
Natural Disasters
Geophysics
Sciences
Earth Science
Science and Technology





People felt the 5.9 earthquake from Georgia to Massachusetts, and as far west as Ohio, and everywhere in-between. Many people in this part of the country didn't know what to think of the shaking. It's not often we get an earthquake here, and the last time Virginia had a similar earthquake was in 1897. That particular area of Virginia is only likely to see an earthquake that size once every 1,000 years, say seismologists.So for those of us who didn't grow up near a fault line, we really don't know what earthquakes feel like. What is the difference between a 4.0 and a 5.0? Or a 5.0 and a 6.0?IN PICTURES: East coast earthquakeFirst, forget the Richter scale. While still thought by many to be the metric for earthquakes, it was abandoned years ago for all medium and large earthquakes in favor of the "moment magnitude" scale (MMS). In MMS, the difference between two whole numbers, say a 5.0 quake and a 6.0 quake is a 1,000 percent.Sometimes the numbers assigned to an earthquake these days do not include what metric is being used, but more likely than not, it is now MMS.Second, these descriptions are for people near the epicenter of the earthquake. Over distances, the earthquake's intensity will be diminished. The President did not experience the same amount of shaking in Martha's Vineyard as these folks did in Tyson's Corner, Virginia. Other factors that can influence the localized intensity include local geology (soil and rock types, soil layers) and the depth of the epicenter of the quake. According to seismologists, here's what most people will experience with various magnitude quakes:Below 3.0 - These quakes range from micro earthquakes to quakes that may cause ripples in a pond. They occur approximately 9,000 times per day but you won't feel them - they are too small.3.0 - You may notice a hanging object swing a little. It's unlikely you will feel anything unless you are sitting still or lying down.4.0 - Feels like a large truck passing by or even the shaking caused by an explosion nearby.5.0 - Unmistakable as an earthquake, this can rattle dishes, break windows, and rock cars. Poorly constructed buildings are at high risk of structural damage.6.0 - You can still stand up, but your books and pictures may fall off the shelves and walls. Your furniture may move and your walls may crack. Outside, the roads may buckle. Buildings' walls may collapse and crack.7.0 - This would be worse than riding a rough subway train car while standing. You would have difficulty keeping your balance as the earth cracked and buckled. Poorly built buildings are likely to collapse.Above 8.0 - Incomparable to any amount of shaking you might experience in your life normally. This level of shaking will cause many buildings and some bridges to collapse. Objects will literally fly through the air as the earth jerks violently under them and swallows some things entirely.Do you live in an earthquake prone zone? How would you describe what they feel like to someone who has never experienced it?QUIZ: How well do you know US geography?


Related stories



			East Coast earthquake: How does a 5.9 temblor happen in Virginia?
	



			Virginia quake: What was the damage on the East Coast? [VIDEO]
	



			Virginia quake: Top five political jokes on Twitter
	




Topics

Earthquakes
Accidents and Disasters
Natural Disasters
Geophysics
Sciences
Earth Science
Science and Technology

















 












Monitor Mall.  Shop for a cause - support The Christian Science Monitor.




Read Comments

View reader comments | Comment on this story




					These comments are not screened before publication. Constructive debate about the above story is welcome, but personal attacks are not. Please do not post comments that are commercial in nature or that violate any copyright[s]. Comments that we regard as obscene, defamatory, or intended to incite violence will be removed. If you find a comment offensive, you may flag it.
				


						If you have questions about comments or comment policy, check out our FAQ page.
					

						When posting a comment, you agree to our Terms of Service.
					









 USA »




California marijuana street fair fuels debate over legalization




 World »




Doom 2: Germany lifts restrictions on landmark shooter game




 World »




Elvis comes to life in Seoul




 Innovation »




Secret iPhone prototype left at a bar -- again




 The Culture »




New Star Wars: Blu-Ray release of original trilogy contains yet more changes




 World »




China's future has arrived




 World »




Montenegrin 'jewel' revived by Balkan peace




 The Culture »




Helen Mirren in 'The Debt': movie review





Making a Difference

He pipes something precious into the homes of Phnom Penh: safe water
 


Innovation »




Japan's latest pop stars: androids and animations




 World »




Estonians commemorate independence to the tune of a 25,000-strong chorus





The Culture »




Nancy Grace, Chaz Bono cast in Dancing with the Stars Season 13 
















Understanding the basics of your credit score can help you score the best mortgage Relocation.com






About these ads 








Most viewed





			Unemployment, Inc.: Six reasons why America can't create jobs
	



			How US, British intelligence worked to bring Qaddafi's Libya in from the cold
	



			China denies arms sales to Qaddafi, admits meetings took place
	



			Dick Cheney on 'Hannity': Who is he attacking now?
	



			California marijuana street fair fuels debate over legalization
	



 



Photos of the day
09.02.11 »













CSMonitor.com on Facebook


 
















In Pictures



Space photos of the day: Gas giants
 



Inside CSMonitor.com:






 Labor Day: 5 things you probably didn't know about the end-of-summer holiday
Labor Day: From a debate surrounding the holiday's founder to an enigmatic social rule, the history of Labor Day offers plenty of material to keep you reading on your time away.  


			Unemployment, Inc.: Six reasons why America can't create jobs
	

The Monitor's weekly news quiz for Aug. 29-Sept. 2, 2011


			Witness to a decade that redefined Southeast Asia
	



			Mercy at Qaddafi's notorious Abu Salim prison
	



 





About these ads 




What happens when ordinary people decide to pay it forward? Extraordinary change. See how individuals are making a difference... 



When Ek Sonn Chan took over the water authority in Phnom Penh, Cambodia, in 1993, the enterprise couldn’t afford chlorine. Now purity is widespread, and the agency offers free in-home tests to city residents.


Ek Sonn Chan pipes something precious into the homes of Phnom Penh: safe water
Residents of Cambodia's capital city used to have little access to safe drinking water; now more than 90 percent of homes have it.







Become part of the Monitor community

36K on Facebook | 12K on Twitter | 2,250 on YouTube


























Sponsored Links




Booking Agency


Grabow Entertainment Agency






Business Resources


Business Cards






Financial Services


Swiss Annuities











Fitness


Endless Pools Swimming Machines





Legal Services


Legal Marketing





Whistleblower






Real Estate


International Shipping


Mortgage Calculator


Moving


Moving Companies


Real Estate










Speakers Bureau


Christian Speakers


Celebrity Speakers Bureau


Motivational Speakers Bureau


Sports Speakers Bureaus






Web Services

Best
          Dedicated Server

Dedicated Servers


Hosting


















About these ads


Home
About
Content Map
Contact Us
Subscribe
E-Readers
Text
Specials
Multimedia
Make Us Your Home Page


Careers
Corrections
Find us online
Advertise With Us
Monitor Mall
Today's Article on Christian Science



© The Christian Science Monitor. All Rights Reserved. Terms under which this service is provided to you. Privacy Policy. 
		
















    
 





