The Inquisitr » News - powered by FeedBurner
&



The Inquisitr » News

syndicated content powered by FeedBurner






...

Reset this favorite; show all Subscribe options



Subscribe Now!
...with web-based news readers. Click your choice below:







...with other readers:

(Choose Your Reader)FeedDemonNetNewsWireNewsFireNewsGator Outlook EditionRSSOwlShrookUniversal Subscription Mechanism (USM)


 View Feed XML




FeedBurner makes it easy to receive content updates in My Yahoo!, Newsgator, Bloglines, and other news readers.

Learn more about syndication and FeedBurner...

Current Feed Content



United States Postal Service Could Be Insolvent By Next Summer


Posted: Mon, 05 Sep 2011 23:13:13 +0000

The U.S. Postal Service (USPS) is nearly insolvent thanks to a $9.2 billion deficit and now the agency could be forced to shut down completely by Summer 2012 unless the U.S. Government steps in to save the mail delivery service.
USPS spokesman Dave Partenheimer told ABCNews.com Monday:
“Right now we think we can make it through until next summer most likely but then some hard choices will have to be made,” while adding, “That’s why it’s such an urgent crisis.”
By September 30 the postal service will have reached their borrowing limit of $15 billion and in lieu of that event they are asking Congress to restructure health care and retirement systems for postal workers to make them more independent from the federal government, a move that is expected to save the agency billions.
According to Partenheimer such a restructuring would allow the company to operate “more like a business.”
The agency is also attempting to find new revenue-boosting measures, including the ability to deliver wine and beer, placing commercial advertisements on their postal trucks and offices and even offering more hand-delivery services.
Among the agencies biggest plan would be dropping one day of service from their schedule, a move that could save the organization upwards of $3.1 billion annually.
In the last four years the organization has cut 110,000 jobs, closed numerous postal offices and restructured as much as possible to cut more than $12 billion from their annual operating expenses.
Would you be okay with USPS going to a five day delivery schedule if it saved the postal system?
 
United States Postal Service Could Be Insolvent By Next Summer is a post from: The Inquisitr

     




Honda Announces Recall For 962,000 Vehicles, Will Fix Power And Computer Systems


Posted: Mon, 05 Sep 2011 22:09:31 +0000



Honda Motor Co. has called for the immediate recall of 962,000 vehicles around the world, the recall is meant to fix power windows and computer systems.
Among the company’s vehicles being recalled are the Fit subcompact, CR-V crossover, and Fit Aria. The recall spans North America, Asia, Europe, and Africa.
Drivers in some regions will know the “Fit” by the name “Jazz” while the Fit Aria is also referred as the Honda “City” in some areas.
The news of another Honda recall comes after 1.5 million cars were recalled in August, with a smaller recall following shortly afterwards.
Honda says the recall is required because the driver’s-side power window switch units can potentially melt and even catch fire.
The company is also recalling 26,000 CR-Z compact hybrids worldwide to fix programming problems with the systems engine control unit.
No injuries have been reported at this time and drivers are urged to contact their local Honda deal to have the issue fixed at no charge.
 


Honda Announces Recall For 962,000 Vehicles, Will Fix Power And Computer Systems is a post from: The Inquisitr

     




Texas Fires Pull Rick Perry From Presidential Forum


Posted: Mon, 05 Sep 2011 17:34:06 +0000

Rick Perry may be running for president but the GOP candidate still has to govern the state of Texas. With the recent outbreak of wildfires, Perry is pulling himself from the GOP forum in South Carolina to return to Texas to deal with the situation.
Ray Sullivan, a spokesman for Rick Perry, said in a statement:
“Governor Perry is canceling the remainder of his South Carolina schedule today, including the Palmetto Freedom Forum and tomorrow’s California schedule, to return to Texas. Governor Perry’s first priority is to the people of Texas during this natural disaster.”
Perry was scheduled to join Michele Bachmann, Mitt Romney, and three other Republican candidates at a South Carolina forum sponsored by Senator Jim DeMint.
The New York Times reports that Perry is still scheduled to head to California on Wednesday for a nationally televised debate.
According to the governor’s office, wildfires in Texas have torched more than 3.5 million acres and destroyed more than 728 homes. Perry told all Texans to be careful over the Labor Day weekend and re-issued an emergency disaster proclamation for all 254 counties.
USA Today reports that Perry’s administration has criticized Obama for not offering Texas enough aid to deal with the wildfires. Of course, Obama’s administration says that it has provided more than enough help through FEMA.
Before Perry left for Texas, he appeared at a South Carolina town hall, where he fired a shot at Romney.
Perry said:
“There is no one who’s gonna be sitting on that stage [at the debate in California] who has the record of job creation I have. There’s one in particular who’s created jobs all around the world. While he was the governor of Massachusetts he didn’t create many jobs.”
Romney will get his chance to debate the Texas Governor directly on Wednesday, when a few more punches are expected to be thrown.
Texas Fires Pull Rick Perry From Presidential Forum is a post from: The Inquisitr

     




Celebrating Labor Day? Thank Grover Cleveland


Posted: Mon, 05 Sep 2011 13:12:31 +0000

Labor Day is more than just a day off. It’s more than barbecues, fireworks, and picnics. Labor day is a day to celebrate the working class.
The U.S. Labor Department says:
“It constitutes a yearly national tribute to the contributions workers have made to the strength, prosperity and well-being of our country.”
People today may dread an 8-hour day and a 40-hour work week, but compared to the 1880s, we’ve got it pretty easy.
In 1882, the Central Labor Union in New York decided that it was time for labor laws to change. The union organized 20,000 workers to march down Broadway and demand an 8-hour work day.
According to the LA Times, The protesters carried signs that read “Labor Creates All Wealth” and “Eight Hours for Work, Eight Hours for Rest, Eight Hours for Recreation.”
This labor reform march is considered to be the first Labor Day.
The following year, more labor unions from around the country also decided that labor laws needed to be changed. And by 1884, Labor Day was being celebrated, unofficially, in 23 states.
The movement was growing quickly but it truly grabbed national attention during the deadly Pullman strike, when government forces shot and killed several railroad workers who were on strike in Illinois.
That’s when President Grover Cleveland stepped in. Cleveland was trying to win re-election so he signed legislation to officially make Labor Day a national holiday.
According to the AFL-CIO:
“In what most historians call an election year attempt to appease workers after the federal crackdown on the Pullman strike, shortly after the strike was broken, President Grover Cleveland signed legislation making the first Monday in September Labor Day and a federal holiday.”
With many people out of work and labor unions being challenged in Wisconsin, it’s important to remember why we celebrate Labor Day. So is today just a day for beer and barbecue? Or did you celebrate the fact that you only have to work 8-hours a day.
Celebrating Labor Day? Thank Grover Cleveland is a post from: The Inquisitr

     




California Law Aims To Remove Shark Fin Soup From Restaurant Menus


Posted: Mon, 05 Sep 2011 04:23:15 +0000

California lawmakers will vote next week on a law that would ban shark fin soup from restaurant menus and fish shops.
The law came about after it was revealed to the general public that sharks fins were being cut off while the rest of their bodies were being thrown back into the ocean.
Under the California Shark Protection Act there would be a statewide ban on the possession, sale or trade of shark fins, some of which can sell for $600 a pound.
Some opponents of the bill say it unfairly targets Chinese Americans who find the soup to be an observed delicacy, while supporters say the bill in necessary to protect sharks which some groups believe are becoming closer to extinction at rapid rates.
One San Francisco restaurant owner tells CNN:
“I think for the ban to be culturally blind it has to ban all the products that have to do with sharks, shark meat, shark oil.”
In the meantime Assembly member Mike Eng is against the bill because he says lawmakers decided to shove the law down the Chinese communities throats instead of educating them about why the bill should be enacted.
Regardless of “cultural” acceptance of a practice, animals close to extinction should be protected, I personally see no issue with banning the practice, especially considering the extreme negative effects ecosystems have endured when animals at the top of the food chain are eradicated.
Do you think the practice of cutting off shark fins and discarding of their bodies in the ocean should be outlawed?
 
 
California Law Aims To Remove Shark Fin Soup From Restaurant Menus is a post from: The Inquisitr

     




Michelle Bachmann Promises $2 Gas, Talks About Drilling “Responsibly” In Everglades


Posted: Mon, 05 Sep 2011 02:37:50 +0000

Promising $2 per gallon Gasoline seems like a smart political move there’s just one problem, getting to that point takes more than a promise and Michele Bachmann told Face The Nations Bob Scheiffer that she’ll make it happen, she just didn’t do a very good job of explaining in any certain terms how she’ll make $2 gas a reality.
Bachmann cited an “all-of-the-above energy strategy” to help lower gas prices, while blasting the Obama administration for foiling domestic energy production.
When asked if she would use price controls she told Scheiffer:
“I’m an unashamed apologist for the free market.”
Speaking about her previous statements regarding Everglades drilling she emphasized the word “responsibly” while adding:
“I didn’t say we should drill in the Everglades. What I said—because we know that thousands of Floridians receive their drinking water from the Everglades—what I said is that we need to open up resources across the United States of America, but do it responsibly, because we need to make sure that of course we need to make sure that we don’t do anything that has degradation for habitat or for drinking water or for air quality.”
Shouldn’t all drilling be done responsibly? To me that sounds like political back talk for “yes I want to drill everywhere, even your backyard so get over it.”
Bachmann failed to touch upon various energy policies that have been enacted under the Obama administration, including governmental subsidies to help fund wind, solar and natural gas farms to ease reliability on foreign energy products.
Do you think Michelle Bachmann can push gas prices down to $2 per gallon by drilling in the Everglades and other protected areas?
Michelle Bachmann Promises $2 Gas, Talks About Drilling “Responsibly” In Everglades is a post from: The Inquisitr

     




17-Year-Old Arrested For Impersonating Physician While Working At Florida Hospital


Posted: Sun, 04 Sep 2011 23:07:40 +0000

Matthew Scheidt, 17, was arrested this week when it was discovered that the youngster was impersonating a physician at a Florida hospital emergency room, he filled the position for an entire week before hospital officials caught on.
According to police Scheidt dressed in a lab coat, wore surgical scrubs and even performed physical exams and gave one man who was suffering a heart attack CPR.
Scheidt had convinced hospital officials for a short period of time that he was a 23-year old physician’s assistant from a nearby university and that his mom was an executive for the company that owned the hospital. During his time in the hospital’s emergency room facilities Matthew also claimed to be a surgical assistant.
The boys entire deception took a strange turn when officials confronted him about his lies and he said it was all part of a “top secret” investigation being conducted by the police department.
Matthew can expect a difficult time in the court room for this one, it’s the second time he has attempted to pass himself off as some type of official, the first time came when he tried to play the part of a deputy for the police department when he was entered in a local program for teens interested in law enforcement careers.
One lawyer told the Orlando Sentinel of the hospital’s background policies:
“They’re going to have real problems if somebody got hurt as a result of this kid,” while he went on to add, “There’s being duped and there’s being stupid…If this is their level of competence, God help anybody who goes there for other matters.”
What type of punishment do you think Matthew should be given considering he has put lives at risk on numerous occasions.
17-Year-Old Arrested For Impersonating Physician While Working At Florida Hospital is a post from: The Inquisitr

     




Tropical Storm Lee Pours Down Rain On Louisiana, Knocks Out Power


Posted: Sun, 04 Sep 2011 19:01:34 +0000

Tropical Storm Lee made it’s way across the central Gulf Coast early Sunday morning while dropping plenty of rain across low-lying communities, possibly foreshadowing the type of rainfall cities in the area could witness in the coming days.
The center of the storm crossed the shoreline into Louisiana just before dawn after spending the weekend hovering in the northernmost Gulf of Mexico.
Once the storm reached land it quickly knocked out power to 32,000 residents before it moved North and began threatening various areas with flash floods.
In some areas of Louisiana as much as 6 to 10 inches of rain has already fallen with those numbers extending into the Mississippi as well. The National Weather Service has already begun warning residents in those areas that there is a threat of flooding and flash floods.
Rains are expected to head north later in the week with 10 to 15 inches of rain possible along the central Gulf Coast and 20 inches expected in some isolated areas.
Residents are urged to stay away from areas with heavy rain while observing proper tropical storm and hurricane protocols, for example do not attempt to drive your vehicle through drenched areas as even just an inch of rain can cause your vehicle to be swept away.
Stay tuned to your local weather stations and when required observe proper evacuation procedures in the event of flooding.
What type of weather have you been experiencing in your part of Louisiana or Mississippi?
Tropical Storm Lee Pours Down Rain On Louisiana, Knocks Out Power is a post from: The Inquisitr

     




China Offered to Sell Moammar Gadhafi Stockpiles of Weapons


Posted: Sat, 03 Sep 2011 22:10:18 +0000

In the final months of Moammar Gadhafi’s regime China offered to sell him millions of dollars worth of guns and ammunition. Recently uncovered documents suggest that Beijing, and other governments, may have publicly claimed neutrality, but actually supported and helped the fallen dictator.
Documents obtained by The Globe and Mail show that arms manufacturers in China were ready to sell more than $200-million worth of guns and ammunition to Gadhafi.
The documents do not show that Ghadafi received any military assistance, but they do show that countries like China, Algeria and South Africa, may not have had Libya’s best interest at heart.
The Globe and Mail notes that Libya is currently dividing the massive energy surplus and selecting foreign firm to aid the country’s reconstruction. Libya may not be reluctant to trust the Chinese government.
Omar Hariri, chief of the transitional council’s military committee, said:
“I’m almost certain that these guns arrived and were used against our people.”
The recently discovered memo details a trip that Gadhafi’s security officials took  from Tripoli to Beijing. The officials met with three state-controlled weapons manufacturers in China, where they were told that they could have access to all the weapons they needed.
Gadhafi’s men talked about purchasing “truck-mounted rocket launchers, fuel-air explosive missiles, anti-tank missile, and the QW-18, a surface-to-air missile small enough for a soldier to carry on his shoulder,” according to the Globe and Mail.
So why is this such a big deal? NATO issued an arms embargo and banned any military assistance to Libya.  China was reluctant to agree, but voted in favor of the arms embargo.
While Libya rebuilds, it will be looking to form good relationships with all countries. Mohammed Sayeh, a member of the National Transitional Council, said that Libya will forgive China, Algeria, and South Africa, but it won’t forget what they have done.
Sayeh said:
“We will start a new era. We will forgive them, but we will not forget.”
China Offered to Sell Moammar Gadhafi Stockpiles of Weapons is a post from: The Inquisitr

     




Tropical Storm Lee Inches Toward Louisiana Coast


Posted: Sat, 03 Sep 2011 04:17:56 +0000
It’s been a little over six years since Hurricane Katrina swept through New Orleans causing storm surges that eventually led to approximately 80% of the city flooded and the deaths of nearly 1,500 people.
Although the lasting affects of Katrina are still being felt today, the city may need to brace for another disaster, Tropical Storm Lee, which is inching its way northward up the oil-rich Gulf of Mexico and is expected to creep up on the coast of southern Louisiana this weekend.
In its 8pm update, the National Hurricane Center stated that Lee was located about 170 miles southeast of Cameron, La., or 180 miles west southwest of the mouth of the Mississippi River, heading north at 3 miles an hour.
While the storm’s maximum sustained winds strengthened to 45 mph earlier today, it isn’t expected to make landfall until Sunday (Sept. 4), according to the Miami-based center’s forecast.
Louisiana Governor Bobby Jindal warned residents that torrential rains, substantial winds and tidal surges from the Gulf of Mexico could produce flash flooding in parts of New Orleans throughout the Labor Day holiday weekend.
“Get ready for the wind, get ready for the rain,” Jindal said.   “It’s coming and it’s going to be here for a while.”
While experts say that Lee only has a 50% – 60% chance of reaching hurricane strength, it’s the storm’s speed that has them concerned.
“The problem with this system is that it’s so slow-moving,” AccuWeather Senior Meteorologist Bernie Rayno explained. “The big story is going to be the flooding.”
Predictions by the NHC estimate the storm could produce rainfall accumulations of 10-15 inches over southern Louisiana through Sunday, with isolated amounts reaching up to 20 inches.
via Reuters
Tropical Storm Lee Inches Toward Louisiana Coast is a post from: The Inquisitr

     




Alaska Earthquake Rocks Aleutian Islands, Prompts Brief Tsunami Warning


Posted: Fri, 02 Sep 2011 21:11:56 +0000
A powerful 6.8-magnitude earthquake struck near Alaska’s Aleutian Islands early Friday, prompting a tsunami alert that was subsequently canceled.
Although the quake was felt by many of the residents in the very remote area of Atka – a region about 1,000 miles south-west of Anchorage, Alaska, only a “small wave” was recorded reaching its shores.
“In Atka, they had a little bump of a wave, but nothing of any kind of a destructive power. Just a wave,” said Jeremy Zidek, a spokesman for the Alaska Department of Homeland Security.
According to the United States Geological Survey, the temblor, which was downgraded from an initial magnitude measurement of 7.1, was detected  at 10:55 GMT and was located at a depth of 22 miles in the Pacific Ocean.
The coastal areas from the island of Unimak, the largest in the Aleutian archipelago, to the remote and sparsely populated island of Amchitka were the locations involved in the tsunami warning.
Authorities said in issuing the alert they did not expect a destructive tsunami in the Pacific region or Hawaii, although they said they were carefully monitoring a possible threat to the northwest coast of the mainland United States.
As of now, no injuries from any local or federal sources have been reported for this event.
Alaska Native News, weighing in on the quake, noted that the area “is frequented by earthquakes every day, although a majority of them have a magnitude less than this.”
via USA Today
[img]
Alaska Earthquake Rocks Aleutian Islands, Prompts Brief Tsunami Warning is a post from: The Inquisitr

     




Waffle House Index: The Hurricane Recovery Gauge That Actually Exists


Posted: Fri, 02 Sep 2011 16:49:36 +0000

As we saw once again with Hurricane Irene, the actual damage sustained during an intense bout of weather can be difficult to gauge based solely on weather alone… which is why FEMA has the Waffle House index.
Often, losses can be constrained to scattered pockets. While a storm, like Irene, can seem to almost be a dud, events like flooding (as seen in areas of upstate New York and Vermont) can follow and cause unprecedented devastation. And while Irene appeared in some areas to be a dud, the storm impacted many areas severely, and by some estimates will be one of the ten most costly weather events in American history.
Given unpredictable impact of hurricanes irrespective of appearances, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has a few methods of measuring the actual damage assessed in any given area hit by a hurricane. There are wind indexes, rainfall counts, and other specific weather-related processes to indicate a storm’s intensity. But recovery depends on a few more complex factors, some unrelated to the intensity of the weather. Enter the Waffle House index.
You might be thinking that the head of FEMA using Waffle House indexes to scale damage is a “heckuva job, Brownie” situation all over again. But in the context of recovery, the indicator cited by FEMA head Craig Fugate actually seems kind of… clever and intuitive.
Essentially, the Waffle House index is based on the fact that the businesses are 24/7 operations and deeply entrenched in a community. The WSJ explained the Waffle House index in better detail:
Green means the restaurant is serving a full menu, a signal that damage in an area is limited and the lights are on. Yellow means a limited menu, indicating power from a generator, at best, and low food supplies. Red means the restaurant is closed, a sign of severe damage in the area or unsafe conditions.
Fugate added:
“If you get there and the Waffle House is closed?” FEMA Administrator Craig Fugate has said. “That’s really bad. That’s where you go to work.”
What do you think about the Waffle House index? Genius or silly?
[Image]
Waffle House Index: The Hurricane Recovery Gauge That Actually Exists is a post from: The Inquisitr

     




Chicago School Sued For Handcuffing Talking Children, Threatening Them


Posted: Fri, 02 Sep 2011 16:43:03 +0000



6-year-old and 7-year-old Children at one Chicago school were handcuffed for hours while being threatened by a school security guard after they were removed from class for talking.
According to one Chicago mom’s account, school officials in March 2010 asked a security guard to discipline several children for talking in class, at which point they were escorted to an empty office and handcuffed. According to the Chicago Tribune the kids were then told:
“They were going to prison and would never see their parents again.”
The lawyer for one child involved in the incident says of the disciplinary approach:
“There appears to be no reason for an officer to isolate 6- and 7-year-old children, place them in handcuffs, and threaten them for hours during a school day, or any other day.”
The suit reveals that the Chicago Board of Education has completely ignored repeated complaints about the incident.
Under the lawsuit the family is asking for $100,000 in damages, claiming that their son, a victim of the discipline, has suffered “personal” and “permanent” injuries brought on by the trauma of the situation.
The Chicago Board of Education says they need to read the lawsuit and then investigate any claims made before they are willing to comment on any possible actions that will be taken against educators and the school’s security guard.
If the school is found guilty for handcuffing the children, what type of actions do you think should be taken against the school to ensure this type of discipline no longer happens in our public education system.
 
 
 




Chicago School Sued For Handcuffing Talking Children, Threatening Them is a post from: The Inquisitr

     




Record Number Of Wisconsin Teachers Retire


Posted: Fri, 02 Sep 2011 16:26:42 +0000

Following Gov. Scott Walker’s bill which took away a large portion of a teacher’s collective bargaining rights in the state of Wisconsin, while making them pay more for benefits, a record number of Wisoncin teacher’s have chosen to retire this year, nearly double the normal amount the state typically receives.
Reports show that teachers began filing for retirement weeks before the Republican bill was set to take effect, a time when various top level public officials also decided to accept their pensions and exit the public services field.
One teacher, Ginny Fleck of Green Bay said that after 30 years teaching she left because:
“It wouldn’t make sense for me to teach one more year and basically lose $8,000.”
If Ginny had continued to teach she would have taken an $8,000 hit to her salary under the new agreement.
Ginny is one of nearly 5,000 teachers who decided to call it quits, causing a huge experience drain on the state.
The University of Wisconsin System has also witnessed a doubling of retirements from 480 last year to 1,091 through the first half of 2011.
When all is said and done, 9,933 public workers left their posts through June 2011, while retirements for all of 2010 were just 4,876.
With so many retirements occurring at one time the Governor’s plan to cut educational expenses in the state appears to be working, the Beloit school district alone has saved in the vicinity of $920,000 from retirements, but at what cost? Class sizes will need to increase dramatically until new teachers are hired, if they’re hired at all and the drain from experienced educators can already be felt across the state.
While Wisconsin teachers have been jumping ship at record numbers, other state employees have also been tossing in the towel and calling it quits with State agency retirements nearly tripling from 747 in 2010 to 1,966 from January through June 2011.
What do you think about the number of teacher’s who chose retirement in the state?
 
Record Number Of Wisconsin Teachers Retire is a post from: The Inquisitr

     




Starz Says “See Ya Later Alligator” to Netflix, Kills Large Source Of Company’s New Movies


Posted: Fri, 02 Sep 2011 03:09:16 +0000

Netflix isn’t just losing tons of customers after hiking prices this month, premium movie streaming partner Starz has announced that they will end their partnership with the company when their contract comes to an end in February.
Netflix is downplaying the loss, claiming that Starz only plays a small part in their overall strategy, however it’s hard to deny the company’s reach and their movie rights control which includes Disney and Sony movies.
A quick search on Google shows thousands of comments in which customers already claim that the company’s streaming service, even with Starz movies is too shallow in terms of new titles.
Furthermore, the move signals that cable and broadcast networks are increasingly viewing the provider as a direct competitor, rather than a value added partner.
Netflix isn’t being left completely high and dry by American networks, they recently signed a contract extension with NBCUniversal, however those same shows can already be viewed on Hulu for free or with a $7.99 premium monthly fee that offers a far better selection of current shows and episodes from the past.
Netflix shares fell 9% on news that Starz will no longer provide the DVD and streaming service with content.
Will you be jumping ship now that the company’s arguably best source for streaming movies has jumped ship? Their price hike is looking less attractive every day.
Starz Says “See Ya Later Alligator” to Netflix, Kills Large Source Of Company’s New Movies is a post from: The Inquisitr

     




Studen Loan Feast, Discover Financial Services Gobbles Up Citigroup Student Loans Portfolio


Posted: Fri, 02 Sep 2011 02:42:31 +0000

Discover Financial Services has come to an agreement with Citigroup Inc., which will see Discover gobble up an 80% stake in Student Loan Corp. as part of a $600 million multi-section deal.
The deal is expected to close by the end of the month and will add seven cents to the company’s 2012 earnings per share figure.
According to a federal filing Discover will pay a price equal to 99% of the principal and accrued interest balance on the loans.
Student Loan Corp. holds a vast majority of their portfolio in school-certified loans for four-year college students and graduate students, while 80% of their portfolio is held in active repayment.
Carlos Minetti, president of consumer banking and operations at Discover said in a statement:
“The acquisition of this portfolio further enhances our ability to achieve sustained, profitable growth in private student lending, which is a key component of our direct banking business.”
The statement goes on to add:
“Expanding our student loan portfolio provides Discover with opportunities to cross sell our direct banking products and … continue investing in competitive pricing, industry leading service and innovative products.”
For their part Citi gets to remove assets from their Citi Holdings unit, also known as their “bad-bank” a name given to the division because Citi has been trying to shrink those assets. Citi’s “bad bank” originally had $600 billion in assets but has been shrinking as the company sells off their non-core assets in small pieces.
Do you think Discover made a smart move by picking up a student loans portfolio.
 
 
 
 
Studen Loan Feast, Discover Financial Services Gobbles Up Citigroup Student Loans Portfolio is a post from: The Inquisitr

     




Woman Sues Idaho, Asks For End To “Fetal Pain” Abortion Law


Posted: Fri, 02 Sep 2011 02:13:24 +0000

Idaho currently has what the state calls a “fetal pain” law which makes it illegal for a female to have an abortion after the 20-week mark and now that law is being challenged by Jennie Linn McCormack, an Idaho female who used pills to terminate her own five-to-six month pregnancy last year.
The law was enacted because that’s believed to be the point where a fetus can experience pain and now it’s being challenged by Jennie Linn after she was charged under the law. Under Idaho law any female who takes pills or otherwise causes her own abortion can be met with fines and possibly even face prison time.
McCormack was charged with the “crime” after aborting her pregnancy, however a judge later dismissed the case which could still be retried if prosecutors choose to once again file charges.
McCormack wants class-action status for her suit, which also challenges the lack of abortion providers in her region. McCormack argues that women are only allowed to receive abortions from licensed physician in the state, however a lack of providers in certain areas puts an unfair burden on woman who have no easy access to abortion providers.
The suit argues that the 20-week fetal pain abortion ban is unconstitutional because it also bans abortions for women who’s health may be in danger due to a problem pregnancy and because it bans abortions before a fetus is viable at 22 to 23 weeks.
Do you think the 20-week ban should be abolished or at least offer special circumstances when a patients health is at risk?
 
Woman Sues Idaho, Asks For End To “Fetal Pain” Abortion Law is a post from: The Inquisitr

     




London Ditches Its Promise for a Green Olympics


Posted: Fri, 02 Sep 2011 00:52:00 +0000

When London was seeking the 2012 Olympics, they offered up a plan that would ensure an environmentally friendly world event. London promised to balance carbon emissions from the games with clean energy investments around the world. But man was that expensive. London organizers announced today that they were ditching the green promise, saying that they want to keep the focus on Britain, not the world.
The London Olympics website said:
Olympic organizers will “no longer pursue formal offsetting procedures”
David Stubbs, the head of sustainability at the London Organizing Committee of the Olympic and Paralympics Games, or LOCOG, said:
“Officially, if you want to go down certified carbon- offsetting all projects have to be overseas, so if we plant a lot of trees in Essex that just doesn’t count. Because the Games are in the U.K., we wanted to maximize the Games locally. Doing formal offsetting would be diverting things.”
Bloomberg reports that more than 3.4 million metric tons of greenhouse-gas emissions will be generated by the 2012 Olympic Games, from transporting athletes, to constructing facilities, to staging the event. By ditching its promise to offset those greenhouse-gas emissions, LOCOG will save an estimated $4.4 million.
Darren Johnson, a Green Party member of the London Assembly,was upset about the change of heart. Johnson said:
“Obviously we want the Olympics to benefit London, but environmentally they should be a green Olympics to benefit the whole world as well.”
LOCOG will still work to offset emissions, but they will not be able to completely offset the footprint left by the 2012 Olympic Games.
Adrian Bassett, a LOCOG spokesman, told Bloomberg:
“We did look at offsetting but as the program progressed and we better understood our carbon footprint, we felt our effort and resources should be focused on managing direct impacts within our control, avoiding and reducing emissions.”
Do you think the Olympic organizers lied about their green promise? Or were they really caught off guard by the size of the carbon footprint that would be left by the games?
London Ditches Its Promise for a Green Olympics is a post from: The Inquisitr

     




Jack The Ripper Case Solved, Claims Former British Detective


Posted: Thu, 01 Sep 2011 18:37:39 +0000
A retired murder squad detective claims that he has not only identified Jack the Ripper – the the best-known name given to an unidentified serial killer responsible for the brutal slayings of five women in London during autumn of 1888 – but has also created an image to identify what the legendary killer looked like.
Ripper expert Trevor Marriott says that a German merchant named Carl Feigenbaum is the prime suspect – out of over 200 others that had been named 123 years ago – in the world’s most famous cold case.
Feigenbaum, convicted of murdering his landlady in Manhattan, was executed by an electric chair in New York’s Sing Sing prison in 1894.
Feigenbaum’s lawyer, who claimed that his client expressed a “desire to kill and mutilate every woman” who fell in his way, also reportedly suspected him of the Ripper murders too.
In addition to the testimony from Feigenbaum’s lawyer, Marriott reportedly arrived at his conclusion based on evidence from police documents and letters.
One example is an article by a forensics expert from which Marriott deduced that the close proximity from the murder sites to docks would enable a sailor to make a quick getaway unnoticed.
Looking into old records, Marriott found that Nord Deutsche Line, a German merchant vessel group, had a ship called the Reiher docked at the time of the murders. Feigenbaum was a seaman aboard this ship.
With no known images of Feigenbaum in existence, Marriott produced an e-fit photo (seen below) for BBC One’s National Treasures Live based on the description on the admittance form when he was in prison in New York.

For more information regarding Marriot’s theories on the Jack the Ripper case, head over to BBC’s website.
Jack The Ripper Case Solved, Claims Former British Detective is a post from: The Inquisitr

     




Washington Monument Leak Points To More Cracks


Posted: Thu, 01 Sep 2011 18:22:30 +0000

The Washington Monument is leaking. After the 5.8 magnitude earthquake that hit the North East last week, the National Parks Service reported that there were a few cracks in the historic landmark. The NPS now thinks that the damage is more extensive, as it has found water on the bottom of the monument.
Politico reports that the Washington Monument suffered four big cracks after the earthquake last week. A four inch break on the face and three other large cracks on the walls.
A backer rod was installed last Friday to keep water out of the monument, but restoration crews discovered water inside the Washington Monument after the storm.
Carol Johnson, a Park Service spokeswoman for the National Mall and Memorial Parks, said that there are probably more cracks in the monument than previously believed. Johnson told NBC:
“The hurricane pointed out cracks and leaks that we didn’t know about. Either you couldn’t see them or we just didn’t have time to look at the whole thing.
“The monument always gets a little bit of water, but this was more water than usual, so we assume that it is from the earthquake.”
The NPS is currently searching for more cracks and will issue a report next week. The Washington Monument is currently closed. Johnson said it was possible that the Monument would open while it was being repaired, but she couldn’t give a timeline.
Johnson said:
“They said it’s possible it could be opened up while they do some repair work, but as for timeline, I have no idea.”
The Washington Monument leak is not a good sign for the 150-year-old structure, but engineers assured the NPS that the monument was still structurally sound.
Washington Monument Leak Points To More Cracks is a post from: The Inquisitr

     






FeedBurner delivers the world's subscriptions wherever they need to go. Publish a feed for text or podcasting? 
You should try FeedBurner today.


