Old Town Home - powered by FeedBurner
&



Old Town Home

syndicated content powered by FeedBurner






...

Reset this favorite; show all Subscribe options



Subscribe Now!
...with web-based news readers. Click your choice below:







...with other readers:

(Choose Your Reader)FeedDemonNetNewsWireNewsFireNewsGator Outlook EditionRSSOwlShrookUniversal Subscription Mechanism (USM)


 View Feed XML




FeedBurner makes it easy to receive content updates in My Yahoo!, Newsgator, Bloglines, and other news readers.

Learn more about syndication and FeedBurner...

Current Feed Content



Join the Party!


Posted: 2011-09-04 14:00:00 UTC-04:00
It's one productive weekend here at Old Town Home. Although we're not ready to officially unveil the fruits of our labor via a blog post, we're offering up sneak peeks via Facebook and Twitter. Can you guess what we're up to? 






Want to join the party? Simply click on the "Like Us" tab at right to see what's happening on our Facebook page, or click on the "Follow Us" button in the Recent Tweets box, also located in the righthand column, to get the latest on Twitter.Read Full Post





Food Truck Friday: A Visit to the Fojol Bros of Merlindia and Benethiopia


Posted: 2011-09-02 10:59:00 UTC-04:00
Merlindia and Benethiopia, for the uninitiated, are the nomadic lands of the Fojol Brothers and their wonderful food trucks. I've mentioned the Fojol Brothers in a previous post about Truckeroo, but I wanted to give them a proper shoutout with a post that is entirely about their style and their amazing food.
The Fojol Brothers of Merlindia are one of D.C.'s original and pioneering food trucks. They were actually the first food truck I ever visited, and they really hooked me. Their first truck hails from the mythical land of Merlindia. (You see how it has the word "India" in it?) Their specialty is a daily selection of vegetable and meat curries over rice, and I've yet to find one (the veggie ones of course) that I don't enjoy.



Last year the fine Fojol family added a new truck to their mix, and this new truck is from Benethiopia (Get it, "Ethiopia." Do you see a pattern?). The Benethiopia truck stocks a mix of vegetarian and meat stews served with injera, meant to inspire eating with your hands.



Lucky for my coworkers and me, the Fojol Brothers come to our neck of the D.C. woods most Thursdays (Merlindia) and Fridays (Benethiopia). It's an event many of us look forward to.
Read Full Post





Following My (Day)dream to the Napa Valley


Posted: 2011-09-01 09:45:00 UTC-04:00
Up until this point, each of our Open Housing posts have featured homes in Old Town Alexandria, for better or worse, to help give our readers the inside look at some of the gems in our area. But as some of you may know, there's a piece of my heart that is completely and madly in love with the Napa Valley. For this very reason I've signed up to receive periodic real estate notifications from a Napa Valley wine country local Realtor. You know, just in case we win the lottery and can afford a second home or have a total change of heart and opt to move to the west coast. After last week's earthquake and hurricane, I guess you just never know! (Though moving to the west coast to flee an east coast earthquake may not be the best plan I've ever had.)
When I received this week's real estate digest email, there was one property in particular that caught my eye. For a home as quaint and charming as this, I felt I needed to share it with you, even though I haven't had the pleasure of touring it in person. I'll treat it like a little bit of my own voyeuristic torture, force to admire from a far but good enough to share with all of you.
This storybook "castle" of sorts, located in Saint Helena, California, is a modest home at roughly 1900 square feet. Covered in charm and character, it was built in 1948 and boasts three bedrooms and two full baths.

This place just oozes curb appeal. Here's another look at the inviting front door, topped off by a turret. It's just so cute!



The appeal doesn't stop at the threshold. Take a look at the main living space, complete with a stately fireplace and warm rough hewn beams. Imagine curling up in front of a roaring fire on a crisp fall night with a good book and a fine glass of wine (that you purchased earlier in the day on a quick tasting trip just down the street) .



If you can believe it, the appeal of the front of the house is matched, if not trumped, by the impeccable backyard living space. Yep, you can take a refreshing dip on a hot summer day in the valley within the privacy of your own yard. 



Or, entertain friends and family on the deck, complete with dining area and walk up bar. Ahhh. I'm in heaven. 



Between the period details and the old world style, not to mention the fact that it's nestled in wine country, I'm off to pack my bags. However, at a cool $1,595,000, I'm going to need those winning lottery numbers. Will someone please forward them to me if you think of it?  
I admit it. I'm guilty of coveting what I don't have, and on occasion dismiss the great city I call home in exchange for dreams of putting down roots elsewhere. Is anyone else guilty of this too? If so, where do you currently live and where do you dream of calling home? 
Photos courtesy of Heritage/Sotheby's International Realty. Click here for the full listing.Read Full Post





Newest DC Monument and Attraction - Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial


Posted: 2011-08-31 11:02:00 UTC-04:00
Living just outside of D.C. and working in the heart of downtown, I get see some of our nation's most iconic and prolific memorials and buildings. In the years since moving to Alexandria, Wendy and I have seized the opportunity to visit as many of the various monuments and points of interest that millions of visitors flock to each and every year. Really, there's no sense in living within the bounds of a tourist attraction if you don't take a chance to visit them yourself. Otherwise you're just missing out on a major aspect of your home.
Throughout the years, we've witnessed the construction and grand opening (or re-opening) of some of the biggest attractions in D.C. The World War II memorial, Newseum, National Museum of the American Indian, and the rededication of the American History Museum are among some of the highlights. And yesterday, I took a few moments out of my day to visit the latest addition to the National Mall and Tidal Basin area, the Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial.



For those of you who aren't familiar with the National Mall, it isn't the same as the shopping mall you're probably picturing. The National Mall represents the area of U.S. Parkland, memorials, museums, and significant buildings that sit in or on the span between the U.S. Capitol building and the Lincoln Memorial, and between the Jefferson Memorial and The White House. It's a bustling area with plenty of walking paths, running trails, and sights to see.

I work in an office building that is very near the National Mall and I take advantage of this unique location quite often. Because of my proximity to one of our national treasures, I try to go for a lunchtime run two or three times a week that takes me around the monuments and tidal basin. Yesterday the weather was absolutely perfect, so I decided to take a quick pause on my run around the tidal basin to visit and take some photos of the newly opened Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial.

This newest memorial has been under construction for some time. I've been tracking the progress as I've run past it and over the last couple of weeks I was able to witness the whole thing coming together.
The memorial's official dedication was scheduled for this past weekend, but Hurricane Irene had other plans and the dedication was postponed until later this fall.
There are still a few fences and construction vehicles around the memorial, but for a lunchtime period on a random Tuesday afternoon, the crowd was actually pretty significant. There were tourists posing in front of the memorial, politicians there taking photos with their staff, and passers by taking in the beautiful weather in the midst of this new and gleaming monument to the larger than life civil rights icon.



The most striking element of the memorial is obviously the large white stone carving of King looking knowingly across the water of the tidal basin.



Situated on the western bank of the tidal basin, the monument is visible from the Jefferson Memorial and other points opposite on the basin. The large white stone juts out from the surrounding cherry blossoms and is almost imposing.

This will probably be an even more stunning view next spring during the annual cherry blossom bloom.
The primary stone carving looks as if it has broken free of the solid rock backdrop, slid forward and approaching the water.



On either side of the large white stones are stone-backed waterfalls. Situated on the walls surrounding the monument's waterfalls are several of King's famous quotations with date and location attributions of each. While not the largest monument, there is plenty of room to move around and take in the whole scene.



If you're interested in visiting the memorial, there are a couple of ways you can get down there. There is limited parking along Ohio Dr. SW along the banks of the Potomac. If you're up for a little more walking, or the Ohio Dr. parking is too full, you can park in one of the free lots along Ohio Drive. And if that is full (usually only during cherry blossom time), you can usually park at some of the meters up around the Treasury building.
If you're more interested in sightseeing and would rather not worry about parking, you can take Metro and use either the Smithsonian stop or Farragut West stop,  both about one mile from the memorial. But the best thing you can do, if you're coming in from Old Town Alexandria, take the 11Y express bus from the center of Old Town directly into Washington, D.C., and get off at the first stop.
As the new neighbor to the tidal basin block, accompanying the Jefferson Memorial, Franklin D. Roosevelt Memorial, and the George Mason Memorial, the Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial is definitely worth a visit. If you have any questions about the memorial or the surrounding area, let me know and I can try to answer them.  Read Full Post





Toolbox Tuesday: Selecting the Right Paint Involves Much More Than Color


Posted: 2011-08-30 14:40:00 UTC-04:00
How many people out there think that paint is just paint, and all it takes to select a paint is to run to the store and pick up a can in the color you need? Truth be told, if you feel this way, you're probably in the majority. If you're not one of those people, you should be congratulated.
Beyond the obvious choice of color selection, you need to know various details like your preferred finish (flat, eggshell, semi gloss, high gloss, etc.), necessary chemical makeup (latex, oil/alkyd, low VOC, no VOC, organic, etc.), substrate you are painting over (wood, metal, plastic, etc.), and the brand you prefer to use that will enable you to achieve the look you are shooting for.
As you probably know, we've been working on the final steps of our new front door project for what seems like an eternity. After many, many hours of work preparing our salvaged door for its new home, we've finally arrived at the extremely difficult process of paint selection.
You might be wondering why this step is so difficult? Because we have very specific desires with this project, have invested a ton of time into the prep work up to the point, and we're terrified of making a mistake in the very final step of the project.
Wendy and I have been inspired by the extremely high gloss and mirror like finish on the front door of London's 10 Downing Street, the primary residence of the United Kingdom's Prime Minister.





Photo Credit: Maapu

Though it would be quite difficult to achieve a finish even close to this level of polish without a sprayer and specialized paint, we decided to try to get as close as we can with one of our favorite brands of paint, Benjamin Moore. 
Read Full Post





You're Invited to Join Us...To Gear Up for Halloween


Posted: 2011-08-29 12:02:00 UTC-04:00
Wow, what a week! But crazily enough, even hurricanes, earthquakes, business trips and delayed flights can't take my focus away from my favorite holiday -- Halloween! I know, I know. The beach bags aren't yet put away and the air conditioners are still running on high, but celebrating this special season takes a lot of time and care in order to prepare for and savor it properly.
Each and every year since we purchased our home, Alex and I have thrown a Halloween costume party. Even as early as July, I begin to purchase new decorations, start thinking about my party menu, and kick around costume ideas. I mean, if you're going to have a coordinating look with your dog (like Oliver and I did in 2009), you need time!


I also, of course, turn my attention to the invites themselves. I toe a fine line when it comes to the invitations. I absolutely insist, despite the ever rising postage price, that we print and mail our invites. There's nothing wrong with sending an electronic invitation, but there's something very special about receiving something other than junk mail and bills in your mail box (or through your mail slot as is the case in our house). On the other hand, I don't want to break the bank on pricey invitations that cost more than what we sent our wedding guests.  
Read Full Post





Rock You Like a Time Lapse Hurricane


Posted: 2011-08-28 14:54:01 UTC-04:00
Final Hurricane Irene post, I promise.
Our Web cam mounted in our front bedroom window recorded about 36 hours of Irene's approach, main event and departure. We assembled it into a time lapse movie for you complete with 80's hair metal. Enjoy.


Read Full Post





Hurricane Irene Wrap Up From Old Town Alexandria


Posted: 2011-08-28 10:15:00 UTC-04:00
We hope you enjoyed our Live! Reporting of yesterday's encounter with Hurricane Irene. Now that the storm has pretty much wrapped, I'll give you a quick summary of how heavily our area was impacted.
Wendy is still snoozing in bed, but I got up bright and early to head out and survey what was left in the wake of Hurricane Irene here in Historic Old Town Alexandria, Virginia. 
Given how badly Old Town and the entire Washington, D.C. area fared in 2003 with Isabel, we were all concerned going into this storm. But as the storm progressed through the night, we started to realize that Hurricane Irene, though still a Category 1 storm, didn't have the track or the punch to bring the winds or the level of flooding we saw with Isabel. 
By 7:45am this morning, the eye of Irene was significantly northeast of the D.C. metro area and on its way up the coast towards New York City. The southwest tail of the storm was still bringing a fair amount of rain and some moderate gusts of wind as a bit of parting gift to our area. 
As I left the house, the consistently strong winds from the last 18 hours were evident from all of the fallen leaves and branches in our backyard.

The sustained winds were also to blame for minor branches down and various debris around the sidewalk, but also for larger items like one of our neighbor's shutters.

Unfortunately, this house has recently undergone a significant amount of work over the last several months, re-pointing the brick and painting the entire large house. With the earthquake last week their chimney has a fairly significant crack in it. And now, with the hurricane, the shutter that was just painted and rehung has seen better days. Rough luck for this house.

There sure weren't many people out this morning. Usually a fairly busy day, I was able to walk across the major intersections with barely a car in sight.

The storm prep that restaurant and shop owners hoped to protect against anticipated flooding was still in place and largely unused. 

Though the wind did take some of it down.

Walking out on the pier I ran into the CNN reporters on the scene who were starting to wrap up work for the day. They looked a little tired but gladly mugged for my camera since they were between their own shots. 

I talked to them for a few minutes about the storm and how it wasn't that bad, about my running shoes (they noticed them and wanted to know how I liked them), and about the fact that they wanted to go to bed.
While watching NBC4 yesterday, their reporter on the scene kept showing the "prone to flooding" area of Old Town. Well, here's the extent of the flooding that you can see from the debris that was left.

Honestly, this is less of a flood than what typically occurs on any given high tide. Old Town got very lucky and the journalists were, shockingly, slightly sensationalist.
It seemed like power was out in a few isolated sections of the city, through it didn't seem to be widespread. Our power flickered a couple dozen times yesterday, but it never actually went off completely. Though it seems a few stoplights took some issue with the power flickering and started acting a little bit strange.

I did see quite a few branches down, but no major trees had fallen or uprooted.

And a local restaurant, Trattoria do Franco, typically has a wood cutout of the owner and chef, Franco, in front of the restaurant. Not sure why they left it sitting out there, I figured they would have put it inside, but Franco is down but undamaged.

It looks like the majority of the rain and wind are owner, and the sky is beginning to brighten as the sun is breaking through. New York, Boston, and the rest of New England are now getting the remainder of the now Tropical Storm Irene. Though CNN and the other news stations continue to focus on the isolated flooding and stuck cars, it seems as if the majority of the areas affected by the storm were not hit nearly as hard as they could have been.
Sure the people in the southeast will say "That wasn't a hurricane," and the people on the west coast will say "You didn't get a real earthquake," and the people in the northeast and midwest will way "That wasn't a true snow storm, and the people in the plains will say "It's not a thunderstorm until you get an F-5 tornado touching down." But when is the last time any one of these areas were hit by all of these things over the course of a year or two?
I hope everyone affected by this storm was able to escape unscathed, or at least with only minor damage, issues, and power outages. Now we need to shift gears back onto house projects. And like I said yesterday, this storm has convinced me that our next project needs to be the storm windows. As Wendy and I fell asleep last night we heard the sweet siren songs of our loose windows whistling in the wind.
How did you fare? Anything too terrible?Read Full Post





Reporting Live! Details on Hurricane Irene


Posted: 2011-08-26 22:17:00 UTC-04:00
Updated 8/27/2011 - 11:55 PM
Hold onto your hats...and houses. We'll be reporting live from Alexandria, Virginia with the latest and greatest details on Hurricane Irene. So, we're getting this live blog rolling the night before the storm and we'll be updating the time stamp at the top of the post so you can see when it was last updated. New entries to the post will flow in at the bottom and the time stamp link will jump you to the latest. Here we go...




Live look out of our front window.

Here's Irene just coming into the picture. 

The Evening/Calm Before the Storm
(Alex) The office was all a buzz about Irene today. Talk has quickly shifted from our earthquake earlier this week to the looming hurricane. 
(Wendy) Hi everyone! I'm so glad to be back following my week-long business trip. After a lot of long days, I took the day off today and spent my day running errands and grocery shopping to get as much out of the way as possible. Even though Irene isn't due to hit until tomorrow, the grocery stores were already a total madhouse in the middle of the day on Friday. It made Superbowl Sunday look like child's play. Don't these people have to work? Here's the line of cars waiting to get out of the Trader Joe's parking garage. (Yep, we city folk sometimes have to park in a parking garage just to go grocery shopping.)

I not only replenished the basic supplies that Alex had depleted when I was gone (milk, fruit and veggies, bread, etc.) but also completed my weekly shopping trip, picked up easy entertaining items, and tried to stay on the non-perishable side. Just in case we lose power for an extended period of time. 
Read Full Post





Come On Irene!


Posted: 2011-08-26 11:50:00 UTC-04:00
Back in August, 2003, just a few months after we moved into our house, Alexandria and Washington, DC were dealt a glancing blow by hurricane Isabel. Being an area that tends to over react with disasters or extreme weather, the government shut down for two days, the metro stopped running above ground, and people started to prepare while others started to panic.



The result was an indirect hit that slid up the coast, but it was accompanied by significant flooding and left some in the area without power for up to and beyond one full week.
The day after the hurricane we went for a walk to survey the damage. Here are some of the things we saw.
King Street was seriously flooded and the first several blocks were under water.



As the flood water receded, river debris was left strewn throughout streets and shops.



Some had no choice but to wade through the water to get to where they were going (we even saw some kayakers in the street).
Read Full Post





Old Door Weatherstripping? Dress it up with Spring Bronze


Posted: 2011-08-25 09:52:00 UTC-04:00
It's been a fun WEEK OF ALEX series of posts, but my solitary posting is coming to a close as Wendy is due home later tonight. To be perfectly honest, I can't wait until she's back. I grew up an only child, so I can exist on my own pretty comfortably, but our home really isn't our home without Wendy here with me, it just feels sort of empty. Not to get too sappy on you, especially with all of the fun we've had with WEEK OF ALEX. Don't worry, it's not you, it's me.
Since we moved into our house in 2003, the energy efficiency of our front door/vestibule area has always been a fairly significant issue. We've struggled with the fact that just getting near the door you can feel how warm or cold it is outside.
When I say it was bad, I mean it was bad. (Now you say: "How bad was it?")
It's so bad that In the heat of the summer and deep cold of the winter, you can almost see the money being sucked out of our pockets and blowing into the street. (That sounds almost like an HVAC commercial, I can see it now.)
It was so bad that you can actually see through the cracks in the door or above the door directly to the outside.



It was so bad that the old inner double doors would open on their own with the slightest breeze.
It was so bad that you could hear wind whistling through the large mail slot.
Do you get the picture? It was bad.
With our reconfiguration effort and adoption of our new salvaged front door, I wanted to do a few things to make our new setup more energy efficient while maintaining an historic look. In other words, I didn't want to cut into the door to install foam, compression weather stripping, or spring loaded vinyl weather stripping that pops out when you close the door. And I really didn't want to do anything like vinyl or foam that will quickly wear out or possibly grow mold.
The solution for historically correct weather stripping that will last another 100+ years is actually quite simple, it's called Spring Bronze. Spring Bronze is type of metal weatherstrip that is nailed to the door jamb on one side and springs away from the jamb on the other side. The idea is that it compresses against the door when it is closed, preventing drafts from infiltrating the interior of the house.



Over the years I've purchased all of my spring bronze from one place, Killian Hardware. They have so many cool things, like plaster buttons, very worth checking out their inventory.
Read Full Post





Did You Hear? There was an Earthquake in Virginia!


Posted: 2011-08-24 12:09:00 UTC-04:00
Well, unless you've been living under a rock, of course you've heard. I think yesterday's earthquake just a short distance from Alexandria, VA proves that the WEEK OF ALEX quite literally rocks! 
Seriously, Wendy goes out of town and I get to experience an actual earthquake. Let me tell you, she missed out. 
Now all of you Californians out there are going to scoff in my general direction for having "survived" a 5.9 magnitude quake, but don't make me remind you that you can't drive in the snow. Regardless of whether or not it was a "real" quake by your definitions, it was still a rather crazy experience for me, and something I won't soon forget.
I was at the dentist's office (which is actually a small house in Old Town) in their 2nd floor waiting room when I heard and felt a low rumble. At first it felt like a truck was driving by, then it progressed to an off balance washing machine feeling, and a few seconds later it was rocking and swaying the whole building. Another patient in the waiting room and I just sort of silently looked at each other for a few seconds until we both decided, without saying a word to each other, it was time to get out of that place. 
With the house swaying I jumped out of my seat for the door and headed down the stairs. I bounded down the 20 or so stairs with my feet touching only about 3 or 4. I know you're supposed to stand in the doorway, but I didn't trust these non earthquake tested homes enough to do that, so outside was my logical option.
No sooner than I reached the street than the shaking stopped. It went on for about 30-40 seconds total, but it felt much longer. I immediately got on twitter and searched for #Earthquake to see what others were saying. Sure enough, DC, Philly, NYC, Richmond, Columbus, the entire East Coast was a buzz with "An earthquake, here...really?" posts.
After the excitement died down a bit, I went back inside, had my teeth cleaned, and got in touch with many friends to let them know I was ok. I checked in on Lulu using our web cam, she was doing fine and just looking around. The phones were overloaded so it took me a while to get in touch with Wendy. Thanks to Facebook, Wendy's cousin Julia was able to see I was okay and then spoke with Wendy. The Internet is awesome.
Here's a great video that shows the effect the quake had on the rest of the country.



When I got home I surveyed our "damage." It looks like we have a new small crack or two in the hallway wall, but the most significant issue was simply that a few items fell off of the wall and shelves. 



The office cabinet door opened. *The horror*
Read Full Post





Toolbox Tuesday: Improvised Brush Cleaning Edition


Posted: 2011-08-23 11:45:00 UTC-04:00
In any long term relationship between two functional people, both partners learn to rely on one another for many day to day items. This doesn't mean that one person can't exist without the other or is not capable of performing all tasks, it only means that an agreement, sometimes unspoken, establishes basic responsibilities and roles between two people.
When you remove one person from the equation, even for a short time, the other person must "raise their game" to handle everything. I'd like to think that today's post is a direct result of this game raising phenomenon since Wendy is out of town. After all, left to our own devices, men can sometimes come up with very creative solutions to solve every day problems.
This weekend, while painting the new front door with Alkyd based paint, I ran into the unavoidable but tedious task of cleaning the brushes once painting was complete. It's a necessary step when using good brushes, but one that can be messy or can damage and ultimately ruin your brush if not done properly.



Cleaning water based paint is easy. Run some water over it, comb the paint out, shake it clean, let dry, done. On the other hand, with oil paint you need to soak in mineral spirits or another brush cleaner with the brush suspended so the bristles don't get deformed or sit in the bottom of the cleaner/paint sludge. You also need to soak in progressively cleaner mineral spirits until the paint is all out of the brush.
I've always had an issue with this process. I've tried zip lock bags, paint trim trays, plastic containers, so many things that just never worked. It seemed that no matter what I tried the mineral spirits would leak, the brush would end up sitting in the bottom of the container in the used paint, and I would inevitably deform the bristles. This week that all changed and now I'm going to pass this little trick on to you.
Besides, Kheng put time and effort into this brush, so why not appreciate that time and effort and make it last as long as possible.



First, find a normal water bottle. Since I was using a 2" brush a small 20oz bottle was wide enough. If it were a larger brush, I could have found a slightly larger bottle.



Grab a normal pair of scissors and cut the top of the bottle off. Make sure you leave enough bottle that the whole bristle area of the brush can be submerged while staying about 1" off of the bottom of the container.



Next, find a small piece of scrap wood that will act as the brush stand. The wood needs to be long enough to extend from the top of the brush to well below the surface you will sit the brush on. You'll need to drill a small hole in one end of this scrap piece of wood.



Grab a long nail that will act as the brush support. You'll place this nail through the hole you just drilled in the wood.



Now find a place where you will be able to clamp the wood at the edge of a table or work bench. I used my router table because it would be able to clamp the wood to the leg of the table. You'll need to determine the proper height of the nail to ensure the bottom of the brush sits above the bottom of the container.



Once you have the correct height determined, clamp the piece of wood to the bench or table leg.



Fill your half bottle with mineral spirits.



Place your brush in the container and hang the top of the brush from the nail you placed through the wood.



There you have it, my improvised brush cleaner. I have a couple of bottles on the router table, each with progressively cleaner mineral spirits. After a brush has soaked for a bit in the first cleaner, I take it out and comb it out to get any additional residue out before putting it in the fresher cleaner. After going through the clean mineral spirits, I comb it out one more time, shake it out, then let it dry. 
If I were really hardcore, I would probably have four containers of progressively cleaner spirits and a brush spinner to get everything clean. That'll have to wait for when I have enough room to manage all of that.
Though this is a slight deviation from previous Toolbox Tuesday posts I hope it will be helpful for you the next time you need to clean a brush after using a oil based product. But like I said, when we're left to our own devices, guys can come up with some great stuff. ThereIFixedIt.com has some great examples to prove this.
If you have some good brush cleaning tips, let me know, I'd love to make my brushes last longer through cleaning. Read Full Post





Remembering Our Little Ollie On His Birthday


Posted: 2011-08-22 17:01:06 UTC-04:00
It's a rare and unique opportunity to have your life profoundly affected by an interaction that turns out to be all too brief. Wendy and I have both the good fortune and the pain to know the massive impact that unconditional love and a difficult illness can introduce.
Our sweet puppy, Oliver, would have been three years old today. It's hard to believe that just one year ago we were celebrating his second birthday. He was quite sick with Lymphoma by that point and in the midst of several months of chemotherapy. He was not nearly the stocky ball of muscle he used to be, but he was feeling good, still very playful, and still as interactive and expressive as ever. He sure was a personality.



Wendy and I adopted Ollie in May of 2009. He was a rescue that had already been given up twice by previous owners. He was our first dog, but we were potentially his last chance at a good life with a family. 
To say the first few months of our life with him were difficult is a true understatement. Between the constant biting, destructive tendencies, and complete inability to listen to anything we asked him to do, we sometimes felt like we had bitten off more than we could chew. But through our very hard work and perseverance (and immeasurable patience), Wendy and I reached a mutual understanding with Ollie.


 
Our mutual understanding is easiest summarized as "If you love us, we'll love you back and do anything we can for you, no questions asked."
Read Full Post





While the Cat's Away, the Mice Will Play


Posted: 2011-08-22 09:30:00 UTC-04:00
Or at least, while Wendy is away, Alex, Lulu, and Mel will play. 
With my weekend posts about running and baseball, you might be wondering, "Alex, just what exactly are you doing while Wendy is out of town? Don't you have tons of house projects to work on? Don't you have better things to be doing than hanging out and taking it easy all weekend?" One would think, wouldn't they?
Well, with Wendy out of the house, you could say we've been a little bit lazy. Let's take a look at the stuff we did over the weekend.
The weekend started off pretty solidly. Lots of sleeping in, lots of not making the bed, and lots of leaving clothes all over the place like a budding hoarder. A guy's gotta have goals.



Mel started getting sort of crazy, doing wild things like drinking orange juice right out of the carton.



No need to be clean up after ourselves or wash dishes.



And we pretty much spent the whole weekend laying around on the couch and watching preseason football and planning our fantasy season. So productive.



Any extra time was just spent napping.
Read Full Post





As American as Apple Pie


Posted: 2011-08-21 16:15:00 UTC-04:00
What better way to celebrate the WEEK OF ALEX than attending the all American pastime on a leisurely Saturday evening? Sure, there's plenty that I have to do on the house, but Saturday's game was also bobblehead night at the park, and I couldn't miss that. So my friend Martin and I headed out to Nationals Park on a warm but nice evening for a game to watch the Nationals host the Phillies.
Think of this post as a simple recap of my night and some great tips if you're looking to attend a Nats game here in D.C.

We live a quick 15 minute drive to Nationals Park in Southeast D.C. To get there from Old Town you need only cross the Wilson Bridge to Maryland, take 295 North, slow down for the two speed traps on the way there, and take the South Capitol St. exit for Nationals Park. There's also a great parking lot just beyond the home plate gate that's only $15. It really can't get much easier than this.
Read Full Post





Alex Needs a New Pair of Shoes


Posted: 2011-08-20 16:37:00 UTC-04:00
The WEEK OF ALEX posts got off to a good start yesterday with my balsamic caviar recap and recipe. Though Lulu, Mel, and I miss Wendy very much, we have to suck it up and march on without her for the next few days. What better way than to wake up on Saturday and head out for a new pair of shoes?
Man, recipes first, now buying shoes...what's happening to my manly week?
Actually, the shoes I need are running shoes. I really enjoy running, but I'm not a long distance runner, or hardcore enough to do marathons or anything. I just like to run three to five times per week, usually three to six miles per run.
About a year and a half ago I started to develop a lot of pain in my left foot. It came and went for a few months, but it was something in the tendons of my foot that almost felt like my shoe laces were constantly extremely over tightened. 
Last year, after quite a bit of research and the thought that my foot pain may have been due to my shoes (a somewhat heavy and cushiony trail shoe), I made the switch to a more minimalist running shoe in an attempt to change how I run. My hope was that changing my running style to a more natural stride would help to reduce the chances for further injury.
I chose a pair of the Nike Free+ 5.0 shoes, and I've really loved them since the day I bought them. My foot pain immediately subsided as I began landing on the balls of my feet rather than my heel. Now that these shoes have several hundred miles on them I'm ready for a new pair of shoes, and I decided I want something that is even more minimalist than what I was using. Basically, I want to take another stride towards barefoot running. (Get it, stride? I'm way funnier when Wendy isn't here, at least that's what Lulu and Mel tell me.)
While I'm not ready to buy a pair of the Vibram Five Finger shoes, both because I think they might make me look like an ape and I'm not sure how I feel about my toes having stuff between them, I wanted a shoe that would really make it feel like I was running in almost bare feet. Since I bought my Nike Frees, several other minimalist shoes have hit the market, and there was one in particular that intrigued me.
The shoe I'm talking about is the New Balance Minimus Trail that came out earlier this year. This morning, Lulu and I headed down to our neighborhood running specialty store, Pacers.



Lucky for us, Pacers is only a couple blocks from our house. They have a great staff who are all very friendly and knowledgeable. I saw on their website that they had the shoe I wanted in stock, so I was a very easy customer today and walked in knowing exactly what I wanted.
Read Full Post





Goodness, Gracious, Great Balls of Balsamic Goodness!


Posted: 2011-08-19 09:25:00 UTC-04:00
Today marks the start of the WEEK OF ALEX!!!!!
Yep, all Alex all week, that's how we do it 'round here. Wendy is out of town for work over the next week so I'm officially a bachelor for a little while. To our loyal four blog readers, you're in for a treat, you're going to be getting the raw and unedited Alex content for the next several days. And I mean that Wendy won't be proofing my posts so it will quite literally not be edited :-)  
(You see how I used the smiley face as punctuation on that sentence? Yep, that never woulda flown with Wendy as the editor.)
So how am I going to kick off the WEEK OF ALEX? Am I going to be living the manly bachelor life? Maybe build a kegerator, teach Lulu to fetch me a beer, and teach Mel to make a martini? Will I share my stories of drunken debauchery after long nights out with friends? Perhaps a recap similar to the plot of The Hangover? Nope, none of those, I actually think I'll start with a cooking experiment, of course.
In a previous post we covered how lucky we are to live in an area with high quality gourmet specialty stores. One of those stores is La Fromagerie, a fine cheese boutique just a few short blocks from our house. 



This whole summer they've been touting their fresh and imported Italian Burrata (mozzarella and cream) on their Twitter account. A few days ago we found ourselves walking by the store so, at my request, Wendy popped in and picked up some burrata. I've been really wanting to try some all summer and this seemed as good a time as any.
Read Full Post





The Great Knob Debate


Posted: 2011-08-18 10:15:00 UTC-04:00
One of the critical elements of our front door and vestibule project is the various hardware that is installed on or around the door. We've already covered our ongoing mail slot saga, but that's just the tip of the iceberg.
In addition to the mail slot we've got the knocker, peephole, hinges, deadbolt, escutcheon, doorknob and lockset, and transom window lift...and that's just on the main door. The french doors will also need hinges, knobs, rosettes, escutcheons, a slide bold and a rim lock. It's amazing how much hardware is necessary between these two doors.
While we've covered much of the main door hardware in previous posts, I've only just touched on the rim lock. The rim lock we're using is a little bit of an oddball scenario.
If you didn't see it previously in our post recapping our home inspection, the doorknob and lock set on our old front door was "the only thing about our house" Wendy didn't want to change when we moved in. We've stuck to this over the years, stripping, replacing, and renovating almost every single thing in the house except for this lock.



While this lock is not historically accurate to the time period of our house or front door, and I've long suspected that it is actually a reproduction and not antique, it is still the item that Wendy enjoyed and appreciated in a house that she otherwise didn't really love on day one. And as such, the stipulation that occurred while we were working on this vestibule project was that we had to ensure, no matter what door we chose, our doorknob and lock had to work on it.
Simple enough, right? Wait, is anything in our house simple enough?



In this case we got very lucky. The door we chose has two cross pieces that happened to be pretty much the perfect width for our lock. We determined that we would be able to install it in a way that would work with both the interior and exterior of the door, and it would look almost right.
Read Full Post





Wall Art, On the Cheap


Posted: 2011-08-17 11:07:00 UTC-04:00
I'm a sucker for dogs, pugs especially. So when I was at The Dog Park, a local pet boutique for the doggie ice cream social last weekend, I couldn't help but to be drawn to a greeting card display. All of the cards featured dogs or cats, but there was one set in particular that I fell in love with that featured vintage-looking ads.



After perusing each and every card while my husband (and dog) waited patiently, I finally settled on two greeting cards each featuring pugs - one black (like Lulu) and one fawn (like Oliver). I picked them up for $3.60 each, thanks to a 10% off discount due to the store's special event that day. 
I initially purchased the greeting cards as just that...greeting cards. But as soon as I brought them home I realized they were so darn cute I wanted needed to display them. Hang them on the frig maybe? No, that would just contribute to our already cluttered kitchen mess. And then I remembered I had purchased two frames on sale from Michaels craft store months back, with the intention of framing vacation photos from a recent trip to Napa.
Read Full Post





Toolbox Tuesday: Fasten Your Seatbelt, It's Belt Sander Time!


Posted: 2011-08-16 10:20:00 UTC-04:00
Two weekends ago I once again needed to use my belt sander. This time it came in handy when removing glue and excess material on the joint of the new extension piece on the front door. The sander performed perfectly and made quick work of the task, leaving us with a very smooth joint that you will never know is there once it's painted. Because of the right tool, I was able to quickly and easily knock this item off of our list, but it wasn't always this simple to sand something smooth.



Up until a year and a half ago, I didn't own a belt sander. I viewed the tool as a luxury that I simply didn't need and couldn't justify purchasing. If I had a ridge, board, or joint that needed to be sanded I would break out the random orbit sander and some 40 grit paper. If it was a severe case, I might use the hand plane first, then the sander. This left me with many instances where I would sand for what seemed like hours only to put a small dent in the task.
This tool deficiency changed a few years back when I was custom cutting some door jambs our bedroom. The jambs had to match the original jams in the house, which meant I needed to cut them directly from stock 4/4 lumber. Unfortunately, the lumber yards don't keep old jamb sizes in the inventory anymore. I ended up using my table saw and dado blade to remove the material, but that left small ridges in the wood.
After struggling with the hand plane and sander, I decided I had far too much to tackle and it was a good excuse to buy a belt sander. I looked around on a few tool review websites, read several reviews from Amazon users, and saw an article on fine woodworking that did a belt sander roundup.
From all of the various input I reviewed, I determined that a Makita brand sander was the tool for me. It seemed to have the reputation for quality and reliability I was looking for, and had a good selection of different sanders to choose from.



I ended up purchasing the 4" 11amp sander based on several different critical decision points. First, I wanted a sander that had a wide enough belt to handle the various materials I would throw at it. Second, I wanted a sander with sufficient weight, one that would be able to do the majority of the work on its own without the need for me to really push down on it, since that just causes damage to the wood. And third, I wanted a sander that had a good dust port to hook up to a dust collection system/vac. The 4" sander met all of these needs without issue.
Once I received the sander, I was pleasantly surprised by how easy it was to change the belt and calibrate it for my needs. It was also exceedingly easy to hook up to the dust collector with a simple flexible shop vac host to replace the Makita dust collection bag. 
I've used this sander on several projects since I purchased it, and it has worked well every time. The weight is substantial but not overwhelming, and the width of the sanding belt has worked well for all of my applications. The one problem I've had was with the black handle on the front. For some reason the glue on the handle failed and the top half of it came off from the bottom half. This was solved with a little bit of duct tape, no big deal.
I just wish I had this sander when I realized the stain I had applied to the top of our desk was the wrong color and had to sand it off. I think I spent three hours and about two dozen sanding discs to get the wood back to a point where we were able to stain it again. But hey, live and learn. And hopefully our experience can help you avoid a similar situation.Read Full Post





Hold the Mail! Issues with the Letter Slot


Posted: 2011-08-15 10:20:00 UTC-04:00
As much as we'd like people to believe that our renovations and projects go smoothly and are completed without flaws, sometimes things take far more time and are far more frustrating than either of us anticipated.
The truth is, any renovation that ends up looking "right" typically takes a considerable amount of effort, time, research, perserverence, and some luck. Sure, the right tools for the job, knowing where to shop for hardware or specialty supplies, and previous experience can help considerably. But sometimes, no matter what you have working in your favor, things just don't go the way you want or plan for it to go.
Such is the case with our "new" antique mail slot for our restored front door. If you recall, after a long search we finally purchased a slightly ornate and very cool mail slot from eBay.
When the mail slot arrived we were very excited and launched right into the installation process. I carefully measured and cut the hole in the center of one of the door's panels and felt like we were on the way. But that's when the problems started.
First, I noticed that the mail slot was actually broken. Yep, one of the hinges on the flap was partially worn away/broken off and once the flap opened to a certain point, it would come off of the hinge pin. The spring was also broken.



Then I realized that the mail slot was designed in such a way that made it nearly impossible to install without a minor but noticeable gap between the top of the mail slot and the door. In order for the flap to open, it would need to open up into the door area which would require the hole in the door to extend up above the top of the mail slot. If you can't image what I'm trying to describe, and you don't get what I'm saying from the photo below, trust me, it would have looked horrible.



End result...WE'RE SO FRUSTRATED!!!
Read Full Post





Food Truck Friday: Lunch at Truckeroo 3!


Posted: 2011-08-12 16:17:00 UTC-04:00
You may recall a post from a few months ago where I attended the first ever Truckeroo in D.C. What is Truckeroo, you ask? It is an organized gathering of approximately 20 of D.C.'s popular rolling eateries otherwise known as food trucks. On a Friday of each summer month, Truckeroo takes over the parking lot just beyond the center field gate of Nationals Park.
Unfortunately, I missed Truckeroo 2 because Wendy and I were out of town. :-( I was quite sad. But I'm in town today, so several co-workers and I headed over to the Nationals Park/Navy Yard area to check out this third installment. 



Martin showing us it is Truckeroo 3
Overall, the event seemed to be more widely attended. Not a surprising scenario since it is far more well known this time around. Even though there were more people, everything seemed to be running just a little bit smoother than the last one I attended. I'll chalk that up to experience. See, no lines out front like the last time.
Read Full Post





11 Years in Washington, D.C.


Posted: 2011-08-12 11:00:00 UTC-04:00
Yesterday, August 11, 2011, Wendy and I realized that it was the official 11th anniversary of our move from the suburbs of Cleveland, Ohio to Washington, D.C. It's hard to believe, but as fresh faced college grads we packed all of our necessities and made the six hour journey to begin our new life in our new home.
Throughout our time living here, we've undergone tremendous changes in our lives including the onset of living independently from our parents, getting married, buying our first home, and the growth and responsibility that has come with our respective jobs. We've experienced high points, low points, exciting points, and mundane points, but at each point over the last 11 years, we've used our experiences to grow and learn.
So we'd like to do a little retrospective between the two of us and share it here with the world four people that read our blog. We hope you'll enjoy it.
Q: Are you glad you left Cleveland and moved to Alexandria?
Alex: Very! It was a scary time leaving the comfort and security of the city we had grown up in, but it also opened a huge number of possibilities we wouldn't have had if we had stayed in Cleveland. We took a risk and hoped for the best. Looking back on the last 11 years, I consider us very fortunate that everything has worked out the way it has. However, I do miss seeing the Browns and Indians in person on a regular basis.
Wendy: Absolutely. What started as an adventure with a three year imposed time limit has now stretched into a "maybe forever." Moving away from our family and friends was very difficult, and we took a big risk. I didn't have a job when we moved to D.C. (luckily I found one within only three weeks), and this area has opened our eyes and broadened our experiences to include a diverse history and culture that we didn't have access to in Ohio. Ultimately it made us have to be completely self reliant without having a network to fall back on. 



Our First Apartment
Q: Buying our house, good decision or bad decision?
Read Full Post





Spectacular Homes of Old Town Alexandria


Posted: 2011-08-11 11:16:00 UTC-04:00
Historic Old Town Alexandria is choc full of houses, churches, and other interesting historic structures. Hundreds of homes pack the tree lined blocks of our densely populated D.C. urban suburb, each one unique in its own right. For this very reason, walking the streets of Old Town just to admire the stunning homes (that we could never afford) is one of our favorite hobbies. 
Though the houses of old town vary in size, age, construction, and style, they can all be categorized in one manner or another to relate one to the next. Today, in what is sure to become a recurring post feature on our blog, we'd love to share a few of the homes we like to gaze at each time we walk by them. 
In no way are these homes meant as a definitive list of the finest Old Town has to offer, or is it a list based purely on age, size, or history, but rather our subjective list of places we are frequently in awe of. The homes featured here are significant, grand, stunning, particularly old, absolutely tiny, or just plain awesome. We feel each of these homes, given their various characteristics, can be categorized as some of the most spectacular in the area. So without further adieu, this is our first installment of The Great Homes of Old Town Alexandria.
711 Prince Street
The first home in our list is actually a home that I simply can't get over. Every time I look at it, no matter if it is in the heat of summer, a snow covered winter day, the first buds of spring, or in the middle of a colorful fall morning, this home never ceases to disappoint.



Built around 1800 and enlarged several times over the years after being purchased in 1811 by William Fowle, this grand house in the city possesses many of the characteristics more common of a suburban home. The front yard, back yard, driveway, and picket fence is a rarity in Old Town. 
Read Full Post





FeedBurner delivers the world's subscriptions wherever they need to go. Publish a feed for text or podcasting? 
You should try FeedBurner today.


