E N V I R O G Y - powered by FeedBurner
&



E N V I R O G Y

syndicated content powered by FeedBurner






...

Reset this favorite; show all Subscribe options



Subscribe Now!
...with web-based news readers. Click your choice below:







...with other readers:

(Choose Your Reader)FeedDemonNetNewsWireNewsFireNewsGator Outlook EditionRSSOwlShrookUniversal Subscription Mechanism (USM)


 View Feed XML




FeedBurner makes it easy to receive content updates in My Yahoo!, Newsgator, Bloglines, and other news readers.

Learn more about syndication and FeedBurner...

Current Feed Content



microFIT Fails To Connect Customers


Posted: Tue, 30 Aug 2011 15:36:58 +0000
99% of applications are for solar projects
The Ontario government has made an offer to relocate Micro Fit projects which are difficult to connect to the energy grid. But after thousands of dollars spent on those project, residents aren’t happy.
“That’s kind of a joke, really,” said Steve Taylor, a farmer in southwestern Ontario. His father invested half a million dollars to generate solar energy for the provincial grid but half their panels remain unconnected due to capacity constraints. The government is now allowing investors to move projects to other land, be it their own or that of relatives.
“That doesn’t help me at all,” Taylor said. “Any of my relatives who have property are in the same geographic location as me.
Ontario's FIT prices are the most generous in the world.
Most of the microFIT projects have been in rural areas but some areas are too far to be connected or do not have the proper capacity to receive power. Unfortunately, that information was not readily available when residents applied for the program.
Elliot, a cash crop farmer, finished building his 10 kilowatt solar array in November 2010. When the OPA offered him a contract, there wasn’t any mention of grid constraints nor a recommendation that he check with his local distribution company. But two months after completion, Hydro One told him they wouldn’t hook up his array to the grid.
Since then, Elliot has been waiting. “I have been sitting in limbo and I can’t even get enough information to make a decision.”
While the government boasts that 7000 projects are operational and  receiving payment, another 2000 are still waiting to be connected.  The backlog is affecting the ledgling business of solar panel manufacturing. Canadian Solar Solutions is struggling with weak demand and has put off plans to expand its workforce to 500 from 350.
Energy Minister Brad Duguid is aware of the problem. Is a letter to the Chatham-Kent Daily Post in February 2011, Duguid said “the number of applications we have received is currently outpacing needed upgrades to the system in some areas.” He credits this problem to the success of the program, but is it excusable to be unprepared? Duguid said, “I have made it a priority for Hydro One to target areas of greatest need for upgrades to our transmission and distribution system.” That sounds like a big job, one that should have been started before now.
In the mean time, Steve will wait, enjoying his half-million dollar lawn ornament.
Related articles

Ontario gives stranded solar projects a lifeline (theglobeandmail.com)
Stranded solar projects offered rescue plan (thestar.com)
Ontario pays others to take its surplus power (thestar.com)
Ontario Liberals make it harder to cancel green energy programs ahead of election (theglobeandmail.com)
Hudak promise dims business, says solar developer (thestar.com)






Viriginian Earthquake vs Nuclear Plants


Posted: Wed, 24 Aug 2011 16:56:34 +0000
Epicentre of Tuesday's earthquake
Tuesday’s Virginia-based earthquake was measured at 5.9, a ‘moderate’ earthquake on the Richter scale. While no one was killed, it still caused $100 million worth of damage, including cracking the top of the Washington Monument. Of course, this quake is nowhere near the strength of Japan’s disastrous 9.0, but nuclear plant safety is still a concern.
The epicenter of the quake was Mineral, Virginia, ten miles from two nuclear reactors at North Anna. The plants are designed to withstand a quake of that magnitude and operated as expected. The quake damaged the plant’s access to off-site power at which point the plants shut themselves down as a safety precaution. Four diesel generators kicked in to keep their cooling systems operational. As of Wednesday morning, both plants remained off-line as a precaution.
North Anna Nuclear Plant
Nine other plants between Virginia and New Jersey declared an “unusual event” but continued to operate. The Three Mile Island plant, located in Pennsylvania, continued to operate throughout the quake.
Generally, nuclear sites have been very calm. Joe Szafran, Communications Manager Limerick Generating Station Power Plant in Pennsylvania made this comment just an hour after the quake:
“Right now, when we experience a seismic event like we did, we have procedures that we follow that include (inspection) of plant equipment. We are in the middle of getting that started and doing that as we speak. The plant is continuing to operate safely throughout the event and are still operating safely at full power and 100 percent.”
The Washington Monument remained closed Wednesday as engineers studied ways to repair cracks at the top
That being said, there can’t be enough safety. Edin Lyman of the Union of Concerned Scientsts said “If Fukushima wasn’t a wake-up call, this really needs to be to get the NRC and industry moving to do seismic reviews of all the nuclear power plants in the country.”
In Canada, which experienced small tremors from Tuesday’s quake, nuclear safety procedures continued to be strengthened after a spring safety review. “It’s getting back into more defence, more redundancies, backups. That’s  where we’re going with this,” said Wayne Robbins, chief nuclear officer  of Ontario Power Generation.
Tuesday’s quake was the largest to hit the region since a 5.9 quake hit New York State in 1944.
Related articles

Quake prompts review of nuclear plants in 6 states (seattletimes.nwsource.com)
Virginia nuclear plant shut down by quake (cnn.com)






Alberta Building Canada’s Largest Wind Farm


Posted: Thu, 18 Aug 2011 16:31:04 +0000

NaturEner Enegy Canada has received approval to construct the Wild Rose 2 wind farm. The farm will produce 162 megwatts(MW) of power, twice the amount of the province’s current largest. When completed, it will be the fifth largest farm in the country behind its sister project, Wild Rose 1 (204 MW) and three farms in Ontario [Prince Farm (189MW), Ontario Wind Power (181MW), and Wolfe Island (197MW).
The project is be located south of Medicine Hat on 20,000 acres of private agricultural land. The landscape may get a bit crowded once the 108 turbines join the 136 turbines of Wild Rose 1 but the artist rendering below makes the whole thing look serene. Both projects will be completed in the fall of 2013.
Wild Rose 2 Site
The government has been supportive of the project. Len Mitzel, MLA for Cypress–Medicine Hat, said: “NaturEner has diligently pursued the projects through the rigorous AUC approval process that ensures the projects are in the public interest and planned in an environmentally responsible manner. I congratulate NaturEner on this accomplishment.”
Wind power is taking off in Canada.  By 2015, the country’s wind energy output will double the 2009 number. Ontario is largely responsible for the increase, fuelled by its subsidized Feed-In Tariff. However, that program is currently being challenged by the EU, the USA, and Japan for violating WTO rules and it may not survive the year. By comparison, Alberta’s wind industry seems capable of sustaining itself, and within two years, it will home to the country’s largest farm, constructed without a FIT subsidy.
Related articles

NaturEner Energy approved for 162-MW wind farm (calgaryherald.com)
Salazar Promotes Offshore Wind (huffingtonpost.com)
Peel could double size of Scout Moor wind farm (menmedia.co.uk)
Speakers discuss turbines at Goderich Meeting (windconcernsontario.wordpress.com)






Rainforest Carbon Levels Increase, But Is That Important?


Posted: Tue, 16 Aug 2011 17:14:18 +0000

After six years of study, scientists from the University of Cambridge have shown that dead plant life could be a significant contributor to atmospheric carbon. Lead author of the study Dr Emma Sayer warns that, “Our study demonstrates that interactions between plants and soil can have a massive impact on carbon cycling.”  What she hypothesized is that litterfall – dead leaves, bark, etc. which cover the ground – affect the carbon storage of the soil.
Soil, which is typically a great keeper of carbon, becomes covered by organic material where it serves as food for micro-organisms. The energized organisms stimulate decomposition of soil carbon such that a 30% increase in litterfall results in an increase of 0.6 tons of carbon per hectare per year.
Since plants use carbon dioxide to grow, it was expected that plants would increase in size as global CO2 levels increased. This also leads to more dead plant matter which results in more carbon released from the soil. Dr Emma Sayer said, “Models of climate change must take these feedbacks into account to predict future atmospheric carbon dioxide levels.”

So, here’s some math. Rainforests make up about 6% of the Earth’s surface which is 900 million hectares. If every hectare of rainforest in the world experienced a litterfall increase like the Doctor suggests, the result would be 540 million tons of released soil carbon. It sounds like a lot but as you can see from the chart below, the total global fossil carbon emissions are 9 billion tons of carbon. Even cement production looks to produce about 300 million tons per year, pretty close.
While more carbon is undesirable, this news, as presented, might be a red herring as there are so many carbon saving projects happening around the world. For example, see Envirogy’s previous post about Alberta’s coal gasification process which is saving 1.3 million tones of CO2. That’s just one project in one province in one country. There isn’t much we can do about litterfall so let’s keep focused on things that help like improving efficiency and new energy technologies.
Related articles

Crops with deeper roots capture more carbon, fight drought: study (scientificamerican.com)
Rising Carbon Dioxide Could Reverse Drying Effects of Higher Temperatures On Rangelands (climateofourfuture.wordpress.com)
CO2 Tax Australia – No Better Time To Kill Off A “Polluter” Completely (papundits.wordpress.com)
Melting Arctic permafrost will boost carbon emissions (cbc.ca)






Coal Cleans Up Its Act


Posted: Thu, 11 Aug 2011 13:48:38 +0000
Alberta Energy Minister Ron Liepert
There’s some chemical magic happening at a new project near Edmonton, Alberta. Energy Minister Ron Liepert announced that the province will access unminable coal deep in the Earth by transforming it into a gas.
The province has about 30 billion tonnes of coal left to mine but there is 620 billon tonnes of unreachable coal 14oo metres below the surface. However, engineers have found a way to bring that coal to us in a different state. The process works by pumping water and oxygen through the deep coal. Combined with heat and steam, coal is converted to gas which is pumped up a different well to the surface. This particular project near Edmonton is expected to generate 300 megawatts of power, enough for 300,000 homes.
Coal Gasification Process
Gasification comes with an added benefit of being easier to clean. As the coal gas reaches the surface, the CO2 can be removed and stored before the fuel is burned. The captured carbon can have practical purposes such as “Enhanced Oil Recovery,” which injects the gas into oil fields to push the oil towards extraction wells.
This project is expected to capture 1.3 million tonnes of CO2. Liepert says this method will help the province meet its emission reduction target of 50% less carbon by 2050, with numbers closer to 70%. Construction wil begin in 2013 with the carbon capture component operational in 2015. The project, costing $1.5 billion, is part of a large Carbon Capture and Storage program operated by the provincial government. Other projects in this program include storing 1.2 million tonnes of CO2 from a Shell oil sand upgrader and retrofitting 3 coal-fired plants with carbon capturing technology.

Various uses of CO2 after removing it from the coal gas. Number three is "enhanced oil recovery."
Related articles

Alberta signs third carbon-capture deal (ctv.ca)
Shell Canada files paperwork for $1.35B carbon capture project (theprovince.com)
Coal is critical to America’s future (cnn.com)
The Future Of Cheap Energy: Underground Coal Gasification (businessinsider.com)






The secret power vampire: your cable box


Posted: Thu, 04 Aug 2011 20:28:36 +0000
You often hear about the enormous drain on electricity that is caused by keeping your air conditioning too high, or doing laundry during peak energy hours, or even little things like leaving the light on when you leave the room, but the one thing that you don’t hear that much about is how much power a regular TV top cable box uses. Most people who own a cable box leave them on perpetually — day and night, at work, at home and even when they go on vacation — in fact, cable boxes spend more time not in use than being used. This, coupled with the fact that cable boxes are insanely inefficient, power-hungry devices, and consume exactly the same amount of energy when being used or not, leads to enormous amounts of electricity being sucked up. As much as 446 kilowatt hours of electricity per year, more than certain air conditioning units and energy-efficient refrigerators.
Rogers Cable uses Cisco systems cable boxes among other models, and Cisco has come out publicly and said that it’s new line of boxes will have the option to switch to a 25% more energy efficient “standby” mode after a period of time, but these models are currently still in the concept phase. All of the cable boxes currently on the market do not have a 25% reduced power mode, and even future boxes may not have the ability to automatically go to standby mode: it could be disabled by cable companies who could see the feature as more of a hassle than a benefit. Even at 75% energy use, cable boxes use a large proportion of a household’s energy bill. In hot summers when appliances such as air conditioners and refrigerators have to work harder, having yet another always-on unit puts extra stress on the grid. Despite this, most people have no idea how much energy these units can use; after all, they’re small, and on the surface seem to only have a small light and LCD display, not wholly unlike an alarm clock. But inside, they’re much more complex, featuring a large chipset, cooling fans and in some cases, hard drives, meaning that they suck up a considerable amount of energy compared to their size.
Remember to turn off your cable box when it's not doing anything
The lesson that we should glean from this is that we should turn off cable boxes when we’re not at home and using them, and we need to conserve more energy in general, especially during the summer. You’ll be relieving the burden on Canada’s stressed power generation stations, as well as the burden on your wallet. With the rising cost of electricity, you’ll certainly be doing yourself a favour.




McGuinty Liberals Ensure ‘Green Act’ Lives Past October


Posted: Wed, 03 Aug 2011 17:25:00 +0000

PC Leader Tim Hudak

Ontario is taking a step to ensure its renewable energy contracts live on. Previously, contracts created through the Feed-In Tariff program could be terminated unilaterally by the Ontario Power Authority. The changed wording now prevents such an occurrence, provided that the suppliers submit domestic content plans and enter into agreement with domestic manufacturers.
Energy Minister Brad Duguid said business leaders have been asking for the clause to be removed in order to better stabilize the program; until now, they have been under threat of losing support. Now, the government is virtually guaranteeing the 1800 projects already approved which constitute 10% of the province’s power.
Duguid denied that the decision was a response to PC leader Tim Hudak’s claim that he would end the FIT program if elected in the Fall.  Canceling the FIT program would hinder the industry by canceling Samsung’s $7 billion investment from Ontario. However, Hudak did promise to honour the 1800 contracts already signed (the contracts now entrenched).
Recent developments will not stop Hudak from cancelling the program altogether. He says the program is unaffordable and unsustainable due to subsidies which pay upwards of 80 cents for power that would normally cost five. Regardless, this decision ensures that parts of the Green Act will live on even if the McGuinty Liberals do not.
Related articles

McGuinty says Hudak’s promise to scrap green energy plans is reckless (thestar.com)
Tories trash Grits’ hydro record (windsorstar.com)
McGuinty says PCs’ promise to scrap green contracts is reckless (thestar.com)
Hudak will end FIT program and cancel Samsung deal (windconcernsontario.wordpress.com)






Germany’s Energy Prices Rise Post Nuclear Shutdown


Posted: Tue, 26 Jul 2011 18:19:58 +0000

Chancellor Angela Merkel

When Germany decided to shut down its nuclear industry, there was much speculation about how much it would affect household energy bills. Unfortunately, the more time there is to analyze the situation, the higher that number rises.
Philipp Rosler, Germany’s Economics Minister, previously estimated that the cost to consumers would be one cent per kilowatt-hour which translates to a $50-57 increase per household. That was considered to be a modest estimate when he made it a few weeks back. A new estimate has come from the Financial Times Deutschland which estimates that the increase may be $250 a year for a household of three. This rise of 5 cents per kilowatt-hour, rather than the government’s estimated 1 cent, is the result of using more expensive solar and wind power.
Chancellor Angela Merkel has already ordered seven of Germany’s oldest nuclear reactors be taken offline for safety inspection and it is presumed they will never run again. Her plan to build more renewable generators is not progressing quickly enough and a shortfall is predicted. To fill the gap, coal and natural gas generators will be heavily relied upon. In addition, Merkel will import a large amount of energy from her neighbours which is a bit ironic since some of them are abundantly nuclear. Germany will end up replacing some of its nuclear power with someone else’s marked-up nuclear power.
Already Germany is paying more. In fact, Germans pays twice as much for power than the French. France produces 80% of it electricity from nuclear compared to Germany’s 23%, soon to be 0%. Hopefully, the predictions will not continue to increase.
Related articles

Germany’s Post-Nuclear Future: Peril or Progress? (envirogy.ca)
Why the UK must choose renewables over nuclear: an answer to Monbiot | Jonathon Porritt (guardian.co.uk)
Germany’s nuclear industry by numbers (telegraph.co.uk)
Crisis ‘will not end nuclear age’ (bbc.co.uk)
Germany will use fossil fuels to plug nuclear gap (newscientist.com)






Japan Forces Shutdown Of “Illegal” Canadian Green Energy Plan


Posted: Fri, 22 Jul 2011 14:48:32 +0000










The WTO announced it would soon pass judgment on a dispute between Japan and Canada. In 2010, Japan filed a complaint that Ontario’s Feed-In Tarriff (FIT) program violated international trade laws and discriminated against foreign companies.
Ontario’s FIT is a program designed  to pay above market rates for green power which encourages the construction of more green plants, materials, and creates jobs. For participants to qualify for the generous subsidy (80 cents per kilowatt hour, the highest such rate in the world), 50 per cent of the material in solar and wind projects must be made in Ontario. The goal is to create a long-term, self-sustaining renewable energy grid that is capable of replacing the province’s coal plants.
Japan says this is a violation of WTO regulations. According to the WTO General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, imported goods must be accorded treatment “no less favourable” than that accorded to goods produced domestically. It is Ontario’s insistence that products be made locally that concerns Japan. The FIT program does allow for foreign involvement – Germany’s Siemens is building wind turbines, Samsung was Ontario’s first partner with a $7 billion investment – but those countries are building infrastructure in Ontario.
Japan might win this dispute if it can prove that power producers are granted generous subsidies contingent upon using non-imported Japanese products. So far, there have only been vague comments from Brad Duguid, Ontario’s energy minister. He said “it is Canada’s view that Ontario’s Green Energy Act is consistent with Canada’s international trade obligations under the WTO,” but he admitted to not being aware of the details of the claim.
If Japan wins this battle, Ontario will have to take their FIT program in another direction. Using other countries as inspiration, a FIT can be designed without the domestic production rule. The USA is avoiding FITs altogether, approaching green energy promotion by investing in an Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Worker Training Program. This way, they hope to create an industry by first creating the people capable of working in it. Also, they bypass any WTO trade rules.
The WTO announced that a judgment on the Japan/Canada dispute would come within six months. The silver lining in Ontario’s potential loss may be that its high subsidies and open market will attract a swath of new investment.
Related articles

Ontario’s Power Trip (opinion.financialpost.com)
Green plan victim of its own success: Grits (windsorstar.com)
Tories seen as threat to green energy firms (news.nationalpost.com)
Ontario tax dollars supporting energy in the West, McGuinty says (theglobeandmail.com)
Overlapping NAFTA/WTO Environment Claims: Ontario’s Renewable Energy Policies (worldtradelaw.typepad.com)






Much Ado About Nothing: Canada’s Energy Policy Meeting


Posted: Thu, 21 Jul 2011 15:11:45 +0000
Joe Oliver
With May’s National Election in the rearview mirror and a majority government in power, it’s come time to set up the policies that will shape the country for the next half decade. One of the most important issues facing Canadians is the country’s energy policy, which is currently being ironed out in picturesque Kananaskis, Alberta. Interestingly, the Conservative Federal government has loosened the reins on Energy, and has invited provincial and territorial Energy ministers to colaborate on the country’s energy future — a move that seems uncharacteristic for a political party that has such strong ties to Alberta, and in particular, Alberta’s oil sands.

To date, the meetings have produced a “rough outline” of the future energy plan. But what does that future plan entail? Apparently not a whole lot. Joe Oliver, federal Minister of Energy and leader of the Kananaskis summit has said that the Alberta oilsands can be developed to be sustainable, indicating that the Government is unsurprisingly still in the corner of the oilsands, but the softening in the stance comes from the wording about sustainability, which has been a concern for the other provinces.
While nothing concrete came from the meetings on Monday and Tuesday, the meetings discussed topics from the ubiquitous oil sands issue, to alternative energy power projects as well as broader subjects such as global warming. Certainly all very important issues, but the fact that nothing solid came out of the meetings means that Canadians will have to wait in order to figure out what direction Canada is headed in on its energy policy. Another blow to the legitimacy of the conference as a “National mandate” was the fact that neither Ontario nor Quebec decided to attend the conference.
In any case, it’s undeniable that progress needs to be made in order to address Canada’s energy policies, and, you know, actually create some policies. While it’s nice that there was an attempt at a truly national consensus, but progress needs to be made.
Related articles

Minister: Gov’t will collaborate on energy policy (ctv.ca)
Ministers chart action plan for energy policy (ctv.ca)
Energy ministers to seek new oil markets (cbc.ca)
Oilsands can be developed in a sustainable way: Oliver (ctv.ca)








FeedBurner delivers the world's subscriptions wherever they need to go. Publish a feed for text or podcasting? 
You should try FeedBurner today.


