TreeHugger - powered by FeedBurner
&



TreeHugger

syndicated content powered by FeedBurner






...

Reset this favorite; show all Subscribe options



Subscribe Now!
...with web-based news readers. Click your choice below:







...with other readers:

(Choose Your Reader)FeedDemonNetNewsWireNewsFireNewsGator Outlook EditionRSSOwlShrookUniversal Subscription Mechanism (USM)


 View Feed XML




FeedBurner makes it easy to receive content updates in My Yahoo!, Newsgator, Bloglines, and other news readers.

Learn more about syndication and FeedBurner...


A message from this feed's publisher: 

Current Feed Content



Track Happy Feet's Progress as He Swims Back Home


Posted: Sun, 04 Sep 2011 23:18:43 -0500
 Screengrab via OurFarSouth.org

The world's most beloved wayward penguin, Happy Feet, was released today back into the Southern Ocean -- two months after waddling ashore in New Zealand, hundreds of miles from home. It was a bittersweet send-off for the the bird's tireless rescuers, though everyone was happy to do their part in helping the Emperor penguin find his way back to the chilly Antarctic climes. But for those not ready to say goodbye just ye... Read the full story on TreeHugger



"Oyster Gardeners" Rebuild a Once Thriving Population in the Chesapeake Bay 


Posted: Sun, 04 Sep 2011 13:45:00 -0500

Photo: Sam Beebe / Ecotrust

Scientists say that the Chesapeake Bay's oyster population has dramatically declined to 5 percent of what it was when European settlers first inhabited the area, according to an article in Reuters. Unsustainable fishing practices, Read the full story on TreeHugger



Check out NYC's Hottest Pool Party in a Vacant Parking Lot


Posted: Sun, 04 Sep 2011 13:30:00 -0500

The Pools at The Palms photo by Bonnie Hulkower

Several arts groups came together to create the 15,000 square-foot pool party space, cheekily named "The Palms." The idea is to look like a 1940s Florida resort hotel lobby, complete with fancy cocktails. But this is not your grandmother's Boca Raton 1940s summer party. This is a summer Read the full story on TreeHugger



The Week in Animal News: New Monkey Species, Panda Poo Power, and More (Slideshow)


Posted: Fri, 02 Sep 2011 09:45:36 -0500

Image: TreeHugger

Despite the myriad threats to life in the Amazon rain forest, scientists are still discovering new life there. This week, in the largely unexplored Mato Grosso region of Brazil, scientists not only spotted several extremely rare monkeys -- they found a new species altogether.

We also have panda poo power, cheating songbirds, a dog that likes mountain tops, a wayward penguin, and more in the Week in Animal News.

Read the full story on TreeHugger



124,000 Fish Suffocate to Death in Texas Heat


Posted: Thu, 01 Sep 2011 23:55:25 -0500
 Photo: GrapevineTxOnline.com / cc
As Texas continues to suffer from the worst one-year drought on record along with scorchingly high temperatures, area lakes might seem like the best places to find refuge from the heat, but apparently not for fish. According to state wildlife officials, in one lake alone some 124,000 fish perished last week in the extreme weather conditions, not from a lack of... Read the full story on TreeHugger



Protecting 4% of the Oceans at 9 Locations Could Save Most Marine Mammals Species


Posted: Thu, 01 Sep 2011 14:56:44 -0500

Photo: Flickr, CC
The Least We Could Do
You might have heard of the 80/20 rule. It says that in many cases, you can get about 80% of the result for 20% of the effort. Well, according to a study published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, something similar might apply to the protection of marine mammal species. Of the 129 species of marine mammals on Earth, including seals, dolphins and polar bears, about 1/4 are facing extinction, but most of them could be saved if we ... Read the full story on TreeHugger



Man "Walking for Green Peace" Kicks Seagull to Death, Charged with Animal Abuse


Posted: Thu, 01 Sep 2011 12:28:52 -0500

Arne List under a Creative Commons license.

Jeremy Lowengard of East Harlem in New York City is a member of the national Student Conservation Association, and on his profile wrote that he loves "being outdoors and working with my hands." But on a visit to Canandaigua City in upstate New York's Finger Lakes region this week, Lowengard proved himself no lover of nature, and more adept with his feet. On Monday night, he Read the full story on TreeHugger



Plants in Bio-degradeable Pots At Long Last! 


Posted: Thu, 01 Sep 2011 05:08:33 -0500

Photo: B. Alter

One of the most annoying aspects of gardening is the left-over black plastic pots that no gardening centre will take back and no recycling or garbage collections will pick up. They accumulate until finally...well, we all have our secrets about how we get rid of them. 

The really great thing about The Hairy Pot Plant Company is the pots. They are made out of coconut husks, ready to be placed right into the ground. No more horrible, non-recyclable plastic pots. Hurray!... Read the full story on TreeHugger



Dog Discovered Living Alone Atop Mount Kilimanjaro


Posted: Wed, 31 Aug 2011 23:55:45 -0500
 Photo: Wikipedia Commons

Every year, over a thousand hikers make the grueling trek up to the top of Mount Kilimanjaro, Africa's highest peak, for a chance to gaze over its stunning vistas -- but at least one such traveller has apparently decided to stay. On a recent excursion to the mountain's summit, tourists spotted something they could hardly believe: a healthy-looking, auburn-colored dog warming itself in the sun, seeming to be at home there at an altitude of 19,341 ft. Experts are, needless to say, quite baffled at the discovery.... Read the full story on TreeHugger



Noise Pollution Causing Songbirds To Cheat On Each Other


Posted: Wed, 31 Aug 2011 14:40:00 -0500

Photo by chapmankj75 via Flickr CC

Noise pollution from humans is guilty of many things -- causing whales to lose their way, killing giant squid, leading baby fish away from good habitat, and generally stressing out animals. But while we know noise pollution in the oceans is causing whales to yell their songs, scientists have only just discovered that it is also causing birds to change their tune -- and it seems to lead to a problem with fidelity and mate selection. ... Read the full story on TreeHugger



Will Putting "Smart Collars" On Wild Animals Reduce Human-Animal Conflict?


Posted: Wed, 31 Aug 2011 10:25:00 -0500

Photo by U.S. Army Environmental Command

New "smart collars" that use GPS and accelerometer technology are being developed to track not only a wild animal's location but also how it is moving, when it is hunting, what it is hunting -- in other words, these collars can tell us its every move. Researchers hope that knowing exactly what animals such as mountain lions, wolves and coyotes are up to, we can understand these animals like never before and possibly even predict their behavior, helping to reduce human-animal conflicts. ... Read the full story on TreeHugger



Two Different Approaches to "Wilderness" 


Posted: Wed, 31 Aug 2011 09:35:00 -0500

Joanna Eede has an excellent piece on Huffington Post Green discussing the western idea of "wilderness" and how it often excludes indigenous peoples. 

"In attributing other-worldly qualities to nature, however, and in seeing them as sacred spaces where God lives but man must not, ideas developed which were arguably at the root of conservation policies. 'For decades, the idea of 'wilderness' has been a fundamental tenet of the environmental movement,' wrote the historian William Cronon. Such policies adversely affected the indigenous... Read the full story on TreeHugger



Organic Hockey Diet Scores Big Goals


Posted: Wed, 31 Aug 2011 04:41:53 -0500

Photo: creativecommon/flickr/dustin hall

He shoots, he scores! Eat like an organic hockey player and you too may hit the major leagues.

NHL hockey players are going on serious organic-only diets which include quinoa, goji berries, organic steak and wild salmon.  What, no beer? The results: look better, feel better and most importantly: score better. 








... Read the full story on TreeHugger



What You Need To Know About The Canadian Tar Sands


Posted: Tue, 30 Aug 2011 11:00:00 -0500

This is a picture of Syncrude's base mine. The yellow structures are the bases of pyramids made of sulphur - it is not economical for Syncrude to sell the sulphur so it stockpiles it instead. Behind that is the tailings pond, held in by what is recognized as the largest dam in the world. The extraction plant is just to the right of this photograph and most of the mine is to the left. Photo via Wikipedia Creative Commons

The recent and ongoing Tar Sands Action in Washington DC has generated significant buzz aro... Read the full story on TreeHugger



London's Boris Bikes are Showing Up Everywhere 


Posted: Tue, 30 Aug 2011 04:44:02 -0500

Photo: ianvisits


London's Boris bikes are being invited to all the best places. They went to Paris for an outing and they have been invited to Toronto, Ottawa and Montreal as well. Lucky them.






... Read the full story on TreeHugger



Pinching Poachers at the Source


Posted: Mon, 29 Aug 2011 13:36:35 -0500

Photo credit: Graham Racher/Creative Commons

In many places in Africa, the struggle between conservation officers and poachers resembles an actual war: Well funded criminals utilize advanced weapons technology, helicopters, night vision equipment, and more to illegally harvest endangered animals from protected areas.

This locks law enforcement into an all-out arms race at best but more often l... Read the full story on TreeHugger



Horrors at Chinese Tiger Farm, Reports Undercover US Diplomat


Posted: Mon, 29 Aug 2011 13:27:53 -0500

Photo: Flickr, CC
Animal Cruelty in the Name of Superstition and Money
Sometimes, there's nothing like seeing for yourself. A U.S. diplomat posed as a Korean tourist and went to south China to visit a notorious 'tiger farm' where over 1,000 tigers are kept in cages. What he witnessed there confirms what the pessimists (and they are numerous these days) believe about China's tiger conservation efforts. The endangered animals were "whipped, made to perform 'marriage processions' and reportedly sold to be used in traditional... Read the full story on TreeHugger



Witnessing Summer Starvation Among Polar Bears (Pics)


Posted: Mon, 29 Aug 2011 11:30:00 -0500

Polar bear hunting the northern ice pack; All images by Rebecca Jackrel

Summer on land is a difficult time for polar bears. Relying on the fat gained during winter hunting to see them through the more difficult hunting of summer when pack ice melts. Unfortunately, summer is becoming even deadlier, with pack ice melting earlier, melting farther, and arriving later in the winter. Rebecca Jackrel made a trek to Svalbard, a mecca for polar bear viewing, during July. She witnessed many of the problems polar bears are struggling against during summer months. Check out the outstanding photos from her journey.... Read the full story on TreeHugger



Do We All Hate the Natural World? Derek Jensen on Destruction (Video)


Posted: Mon, 29 Aug 2011 09:52:35 -0500

Image credit: Peak Moment TV
Derek Jensen already wowed Jenna Watson with his high-speed philosophizing on everything from Star Wars to civil disobedience, and his book A Language Older Than Words has introduced many people to the concept of inter-species communication, and the notion that our current relationship with the Earth is based on violence. Here he sits down with ... Read the full story on TreeHugger



Artist Circumnavigates Long Island In Handmade Rowboat


Posted: Sun, 28 Aug 2011 23:59:00 -0500

Image of Route by Marie Lorenz

Since 2005, Brooklyn based artist Marie Lorenz has explored NYC's waterways in her handcrafted rowboat made out of plywood. What initially started as a project called the Tide and Current Taxi has evolved and expanded. With the Tide and Current Taxi, Lorenz would take guests, often random strangers like me, who found her via her website on aquatic taxi trips in her rowboat. Marie would propel the boat using only the tides and currents and some human powered rowing. The first season she took people on short trips, for example she took some commuters from t... Read the full story on TreeHugger



Penguin Heads Home After Making a Rare Wrong Turn


Posted: Sun, 28 Aug 2011 23:58:47 -0500
 Photo: alisdair / cc

Two months ago, on a sandy stretch of coastline in north-western New Zealand, the most peculiar creature waddled ashore -- and straight into the hearts of animal-lovers the world over. Biologists said that the young Emperor penguin likely became lost while searching for food in the Antarctic Ocean, ultimately ending up thousands of miles away from its native habitat of ice and snow. At the time, the animal's ... Read the full story on TreeHugger



Artist Andy Goldsworthy's 'Wood Line' Follows Rich History of San Francisco's Presidio Forest


Posted: Sat, 27 Aug 2011 16:22:00 -0500

Andy Goldsworthy's 'Wood Line.' Photo by Monique Deschaines/FOR-SITE Foundation.

More than a century ago, the U.S. Army began planting thousands of trees in San Francisco's Presidio as part of a massive forestation project, leaving a legacy of lush green space in the northern part of the city. Not all of the effort was successful, though; the cypress trees planted in the 1890s quickly died out, leaving gaps... Read the full story on TreeHugger



New Monkey Species Discovered in Remote Amazon


Posted: Fri, 26 Aug 2011 12:39:12 -0500

Photo credit: Julio Dalponte

In a race to beat loggers, scientists traveled to Mato Grosso, a Brazilian state that is home to a largely unexplored section of the Amazon rainforest—and some of the highest rates of deforestation in the country.

There, they made sightings of several rare species and discovered what is believed to be a new species of monkey.... Read the full story on TreeHugger



The Week in Animal News: Earthquake-Predicting Zoo Animals, GPS-Tracked Trout, and More (Slideshow)


Posted: Fri, 26 Aug 2011 08:50:00 -0500

Photo: shannonkringen/Creative Commons

It had been over a century since an earthquake last rattled the East Coast, so it's no surprise that the millions of people who felt the shaking yesterday were caught off guard -- but it turns out, as a species, humans may have been the only ones. According to staffers from the National Zoo in Washington D.C., in the minutes leading up to the seismic rumblings dozens of animals began acting strangely, clearly agitated, as if they could sense the quake before it struck.

Find out more... Read the full story on TreeHugger



Enormous Underground River Discovered in the Amazon


Posted: Fri, 26 Aug 2011 00:08:59 -0500
 Photo: EduardoDuarte / cc

The sprawling Amazon rainforest is easily one of the most fascinating and mysterious regions on the planet, what with its dark, dense vegetation that stretches across the horizon like an unimaginable vast sea of green, home to an untold number of undiscovered species -- but the depths of the Amazon's secrets just got a whole lot deeper. According to a team of Brazilian scientists, over 2 miles beneath the region's lush surface lies an enormous underground river which runs nearly the entire length of the Amazon river.... Read the full story on TreeHugger



Author Kennedy Warne Discusses the True Cost of Seafood (Video)


Posted: Thu, 25 Aug 2011 16:00:38 -0500

Photo credit: Island Press/Frans Lanting

This month, BookHugger presents Let Them Eat Shrimp by Kennedy Warne. Readers can order a discounted copy.... Read the full story on TreeHugger



Up Close and Personal with Zoo Animals Intrigued by Humans (Slideshow)


Posted: Thu, 25 Aug 2011 13:15:54 -0500

Screenshot: YouTube

Can't get yourself to move away from the fascinating world of the gorilla enclosure at your zoo or the underwater dreamscape of your city's aquarium? You aren't the only one hooked on getting a glimpse into another world: As these videos show, the animals on the other side of the glass are just as interested in you as you are in them.


Read the full story on TreeHugger



National Zoo Animals Went Berserk Before Earthquake  


Posted: Wed, 24 Aug 2011 23:59:18 -0500
 Photo: shannonkringen / cc

It had been over a century since an earthquake last rattled the East Coast, so it's no surprise that the millions of people who felt the shaking yesterday were caught off guard -- but it turns out, as a species, humans may have been the only ones. According to staffers from the National Zoo in Washington D.C., in the minutes leading up to the seismic rumblings dozens of animals began acting strangely, clearly agitated, as... Read the full story on TreeHugger



GPS-Bearing Invasive Trout Are Used as Moles to Find, Destroy Their Own Eggs


Posted: Wed, 24 Aug 2011 17:26:26 -0500

Photo: Curtis Fry under a Creative Commons license.

Invasive species can be seen in two ways: as winning the struggle for life by out-evolving competing species, or as upsetting a precarious balance of biodiversity. The United States Geological Survey's (USGS) Invasive Species Program has decided on the latter in the case of invasive lake trout in Yellowstone National Park, and it's taking unusual steps to combat the dominance of the fish. Scientists are implanting radio transmi... Read the full story on TreeHugger



NASA Satellite Photographs Massive Phytoplankton Bloom in Barents Sea


Posted: Wed, 24 Aug 2011 11:50:00 -0500

Photo by NASA

A NASA satellite has sent down an image of a phytoplankton bloom stretching across the Barents Sea, located north of Norway and Russia. The bloom is over 500 miles long and several hundred miles wide. While it is a common occurrence for the area during August, it is rare to get such a spectacular view. ... Read the full story on TreeHugger



10 Rainforest Creatures That Defy Imagination


Posted: Wed, 24 Aug 2011 10:33:00 -0500


Ecorazzi has a post on 10 rainforest critters that do indeed take the cake for odd, beautiful, and downright amazing -- from pink dolphins to the Satanic Leaf Tailed Gecko (wow, what a name) to the cutest little puffball of a bat you'll ever see. Check out the list and the great photos that go along with it. ... Read the full story on TreeHugger



Photographers Dedicate Their Lives to Documenting Earth's Changing Crust (Slideshow)


Posted: Wed, 24 Aug 2011 09:45:39 -0500

Photo credit: Steve and Donna O'Meara /National Geographic Image Collection

The Earth may be humanity's only permanent home in the universe but, at times, the quiet blue marble feels frighteningly unsettled. Volcanoes and earthquakes show that the planet is, indeed, always changing both because of human activity but also in spite of it.

Donna and Stephen James O'Meara have dedicated their lives to studying and photographing these incredible forces. One of the... Read the full story on TreeHugger



A Green Roof is Evolving at the Museum of London


Posted: Wed, 24 Aug 2011 05:06:53 -0500

Photo: B.Alter 

As part of the Museum of London's massive refurbishment, they have begun to install an ambitious green roof on the top of the building. This will be a long-term research and demonstration project, rather than the sexy public spaces that we have seen on other buildings.

By having a number of different habitats, it will show the diversity that green roofs can have. There are plans for wildflower meadows, wetland areas, bluebell wood and planted walls. All using recycled materials from the existing roof. 



... Read the full story on TreeHugger



New Fishing Tactic Gains in Popularity Among Dolphins


Posted: Wed, 24 Aug 2011 02:18:05 -0500
 Photo: creativedc / cc

It's commonly stated that dolphins are one of the most intelligent species on Earth, but the latest research is proving once again that this lofty assessment of their smarts is well-deserved. Researchers studying bottlenose dolphins in West Australia recently discovered the animals employing a remarkably inventive technique, called 'conching', to nab their meals -- essentially using a conch shell like a baseball glove to catch fish -- and that more and more dolphins are ditching their traditional hunting methods for this ne... Read the full story on TreeHugger



Vital Mangroves On The Edge Of Extinction Thanks to All-You-Can-Eat Shrimp (Book Review)


Posted: Tue, 23 Aug 2011 10:30:00 -0500

Photo by xavi talleda via Flickr CC

Mangroves are a special ecosystem. Found all over the world, they thrive in the in-between zones of land and sea, and act as nurseries for a vast variety of animals, grocery stores for humans, a buffer between homes and massive storms rolling in off the sea, a regulator of sediment and nutrients sliding from shore to sea, and more. Yet while they can feed millions of people and are an important resource, we often consider them no-mans-land, useless or worse than useless, something to be ripped up and replaced with re... Read the full story on TreeHugger





FeedBurner delivers the world's subscriptions wherever they need to go. Publish a feed for text or podcasting? 
You should try FeedBurner today.


