Libyan rebel forces penetrate Qaddafi's compound - CBS News 
       
        


    
   CBSNews.com | CBS Evening News | The Early Show | 48 Hours | 60 Minutes | Sunday Morning | Face the Nation | Up to the Minute
    Sign In With 
Log In
|
 Register   

Your Profile
|
Log Out                CBS News.com World     Video U.S. World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Tech Sports Opinion Photos  More   Popular Strange News Recipes Blogs Puzzles CBS News on Twitter Newsletters Podcasts Widgets CBS News Bios       Blogs: Political Hotsheet Crimesider HealthPop Investigates  More   WorldWatch Celebrity Circuit Tech Talk The Feed EconWatch Author Talk Eye on Parenting Crossroads     Shows: 60 Overtime What's Trending Washington Unplugged  More   The Feed      Radio Mobile                  



Scroll Left Scroll Right





U.S.
Texas wildfires destroy 300 homes near Austin
1 of 9



Sunday Morning
Where have all the jobs gone?
2 of 9



The Early Show
"Happy Feet" the penguin released into wild
3 of 9



The Early Show
Amanda Knox's appeal resumes in Italy
4 of 9



Sunday Morning
The view from 1 WTC
5 of 9



World
Somalia famine engulfs half the nation
6 of 9



U.S.
Shanksville "battlefield" now a pilgrimage site
7 of 9



60 Minutes
Resurrecting the extinct
8 of 9



Gallery
Pacino, Chastain at Venice Film Festival
9 of 9





      August 23, 2011 11:36 AM    Print Text      Libyan rebel forces penetrate Qaddafi's compound      35 Comments  Have Your Say  Email StorySend to a Friend Share ThisTell Your Friends Tweet ThisTweet This MoreShare It      .      Del.icio.us Facebook Stumbleupon   Newsvine Yahoo bookmarks Mixx   Digg Reddit Google Bookmarks   Twitter LinkedIn              Play CBS News Video   Anger in the Arab World    Libya's future   Battle for Libya   An update on Libya       Mubarak trial mired by scuffles in Cairo  Libya rebels swarm around Qaddafi stronghold  Complete Coverage »   
    (CBS/AP)  Updated at 6:30 p.m. ET  TRIPOLI, Libya - Hundreds of Libyan rebels blasted through the green gates of Muammar Qaddafi's Bab al-Aziziya compound in Tripoli Tuesday after five hours of intense fighting around it. They beat and killed some of those who defended it, fired celebratory shots in the air and hauled off crates of weapons and trucks with guns mounted on the back.  The storming of the sprawling compound in the capital, long the nexus of Qaddafi's power, marked the effective collapse of his 42-year-old regime, even though pockets of resistance are likely to persist around the country for some time. It was only Sunday night that the rebels surprised everyone with their lightning fast advance into Tripoli, quickly capturing large parts of the city of 2 million.  Complete coverage: Anger in the Arab WorldVideo: Rebels to Qaddafi: "Go to hell"Inside Qaddafi's storied, now stormed, compoundPhotos: Inside Muammar Qaddafi's lair  "We're looking for Qaddafi now. We have to find him now," said Sohaib Nefati, a 29-year-old rebel sitting against a wall with a Kalashnikov rifle. Qaddafi's whereabouts were still unknown.  As rebels advance, where is Qaddafi?McCain: Qaddafi's WMDs must be securedEU to unfreeze Libya assets once UN approves  CBS News correspondent Barry Petersen, reporting from inside Qaddafi's compound, said rebel soldiers didn't find anyone after breaching the stronghold through its north gate.  "There was no one from Qaddafi's army; no one was there," a rebel soldier told Petersen.  "We're seeing soldiers pouring in, soldiers pouring out, some taking souvenirs, things like ammo," Petersen told CBS Radio News from the compound. "Still heavy fire coming from one of the areas over there. We're not sure whether it's small-arms fire, heavy fire.  (At left, listen to Petersen's latest report)Video: Listen to Petersen's earlier front-line report  "This is something that the people of Libya have never seen," Petersen continued. "This was Qaddafi's playground. Huge, empty fields with beautiful trees, what looks like a mansion or a house ... someone stealing a compact fax machine, taking what they can, stealing what they can, taking away from a man who ruled them for 40-some years."  Will Libya's rebels remain united?The unclear fate of Libya's 4 most-wanted men  One fighter climbed atop the iconic statue of a huge golden fist clenching a model of an American warplane and shot his machine gun in the air in celebration. The statue stands outside a building that was once Qaddafi's home, preserved with the pockmarks of an American bombing in 1986 as a symbol of his defiance.  
The battle comes to Tripoli 






  Qaddafi delivered many a fiery speech from the balcony of that house, railing against the West. It was there that he appeared on television at the beginning of the 6-month-old uprising, mocking his opponents.  Bab al-Aziziya has since been pummeled many times over by NATO bombings in the air campaign against the regime that began in March.  Abdel-Aziz Shafiya, a 19-year-old rebel dressed in camouflage with an RPG slung over one shoulder and a Kalashnikov over another, said the rebels believe Qaddafi is hiding underground inside the complex.  "Wasn't he the one who called us rats. Now he is the rat underground," he said. Asked how it felt to be standing inside Qaddafi's compound, the fighter who came from to Tripoli two days ago from rebel-held western city of Misrata replied:  "It's an explosion of joy inside. I lost friends and relatives and now I can walk into Qaddafi's house. Many of my friends have died and now all of that meant something."  Associated Press reporters inside the compound said parts of it appeared to still be under control of government forces who were firing toward the rebels, making for an atmosphere of joyful celebration mixed with tension. The air was thick with smoke from the battles and the sound of crackling gunfire was constant. Rebels chanted "Allahu Akbar" or "God is Great" and on loudspeakers they cried: "Hamdullah, hamdullah" or "Thank God."  As the fighters stormed in, they captured a guard at the gates and threw him to the ground, slamming rifle butts into his back. A hostile crowd gathered around, punching and kicking him until one rebel stepped in, stood over him and kept the crowd at bay. Inside the walls, a few bodies of Qaddafi fighters — one with a gaping head wound from a gunshot — were sprawled on the ground.  Fighters with long beards hugged each other and flashed the "V" for victory. Others carried injured rebels to ambulances.  There was a frenzy of looting inside, directed mainly at weapons. Thousands of rebels converged on the compound after it was breached, snatching ammunition and arms from depots inside. They found brand new rifles still in their paper wrappings. Scuffles broke out, pushing and shoving to get inside two white buildings where the rifles, machine guns and handguns are stored. They came out drenched in sweat from the struggle.  Some used a rifle bayonet to crack open a green box that contained guns and pushed each other to lay their hands on the booty.  Ali Sameer, a 45-year-old Tripoli resident, stood nearby with three brand new rifles resting on his legs.  "They are for my friends. I don't even know how to fight," he said.  Abdul-Salamah Alawah, 29, who arrived on a boat from Misrata last night, loaded a clip into his handgun.  "This one is especially for Qaddafi," he said.    
    1 2 Next Page »        © 2011 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. The Associated Press contributed to this report.       35 Comments  Have Your Say  Email StorySend to a Friend Share ThisTell Your Friends Tweet ThisTweet This MoreShare It       Add a Comment  1 2 Next »  See all 35 Comments      by samXXkiley August 23, 2011 7:02 PM EDT  coucou,Gaddafi is it still in Libya ? maybeif so, it is imperative to find him, in order that peace returns to Libyaotherwise violence will continue"au revoir"     Reply to this comment            by Dgunner August 23, 2011 6:49 PM EDT  STALIN SAID TO HITLER "IN THE ABSENCE OF LEADERSHIP THE PEOPLE WILL LISTEN TO ANYONE WILLING TO STEP UP TO THE MICROPHONE". NOW WE WILL SEE WHO STEPS UP TO THE MICROPHONE IN LIBYA. HOPEFULLY A NEW GOVERNMENT WILL BE REBORN FOR THE PEOPLE BY THE PEOPLE . CAUTION THIS TYPE GOVERNMENT CAN BE STOLEN AND CONTROLLED FROM SUPER RICH IN MANY GUISES.     Reply to this comment            by sepa2 August 23, 2011 5:05 PM EDT  Now this is is nearing end let us sharpen our skills on lecturing others on negotiated settlements, diplomacy, human rights and things like that     Reply to this comment            by imnotimportant August 23, 2011 4:59 PM EDT  Americans don't need to do everything. At times, they need to help just a little, and let others do the heavy lifting. Maybe the tea party needs to acknowledge Obama's and the US Air Force's success here in Libya.     Reply to this comment            by pdchapin August 23, 2011 2:52 PM EDT  NATO certainly makes things easier and probably saved their butts when the air strikes started, but it's well beyond that now. If NATO stopped today it would only delay the end. This attack was a well-coordinated, planned and executed. The rebels flat out out-generaled Qaddafi.     Reply to this comment            by pdchapin August 23, 2011 2:48 PM EDT  Except that Qaddafi admitted responsibility for Lockerbie. Part of his "but I wouldn't do that again" campaign.     Reply to this comment            by billkol August 23, 2011 2:44 PM EDT  "I have followed these young rebels from the beginning. I am so proud of them as it just shows what determination, with some help, will do. This can happen anywhere where young people take an interest and will give everything for a cause. God bless them."     Reply to this comment           by billkol August 23, 2011 4:34 PM EDT  "It is unfortunate that most of the young people in America have no interest in who governs them. Most of them could not name the vice president. These you people were willing to die for who governed them. Very sad.                         by temple1962 August 23, 2011 2:31 PM EDT  LMFAO - All news media sources get "punked" by a third world squalor dictator! First we have him and then we don't and it was so believable that the elusive American president wants to come out of hiding and start taking credit for an accomplishment that was not complete!     Reply to this comment           by thechooch1 August 23, 2011 2:36 PM EDT  What on earth are you talking about? "WE" never had anyone, maybe the Libyan's thought they had someone. So now our President is hiding? Why are you so anti-American? Did you want lots of body bags coming home? This has been a great accomplishment for the Libyan people you should be happy.                         by EmpireGeorge-_ August 23, 2011 2:05 PM EDT  Anybody in Virginia, did you just have an earthquake....we felt it all the way up to NY     Reply to this comment            by noloyalisti August 23, 2011 1:06 PM EDT  Great posts anti-global, keep up the good work.It is pretty clear that NATO and it's chief scoundrel member the United Corporate States of America (UCSA) wants to control Libyan oil. And spread freedom for Exxon, the banksters like Goldman and Chase and Wa-Mart.     Reply to this comment           by thechooch1 August 23, 2011 1:16 PM EDT  noloyalisti guess you missed Lockerbie?                      by noloyalisti August 23, 2011 1:25 PM EDT  And so we just now decided to take out Qaddafi? And all of a sudden you are going to trust what the US is doing overseas?                   See all 4 Replies     1 2 Next »  See all 35 Comments     Add a comment     Subscribe to this comment thread by email  SUBMIT         Click here to add another comment.   The posting of advertisements, profanity, or personal attacks is prohibited. By using this Web site you agree to accept our Terms of Service. Click here to read the Rules of Engagement.          Comment reply         Subscribe to this comment thread by email  Submit Cancel    The posting of advertisements, profanity, or personal attacks is prohibited. By using this Web site you agree to accept our Terms of Service. Click here to read the Rules of Engagement.     Report offensive content: If you believe this comment is offensive or violates the CBSNews.com Terms of Use, you can report it below (this will not automatically remove the comment). Once reported, our staff will be notified and the comment will be reviewed. Select type of offense:  Offensive: Sexually explicit or offensive language  Spam: Advertisements, commercial links, or repetitive posts  Disruptive posting: Flaming or offending other users  Illegal activities: Promote cracked software, or other illegal content  Off-topic: Commentary unrelated to the storyline Comments (optional):       Report Cancel     E-mail this comment to a friend. E-mail this to:  Your e-mail address:   Send me a copy of this message Note: Your e-mail address is used only to let the recipient know who sent the e-mail and in case of transmission error. Neither your address nor the recipients's address will be used for any other purpose. Add your own personal message: (Optional) Hi, I found this user's comment on CBSNews.com and thought you might be interested in reading it.      Send e-mail Cancel        .      Del.icio.us Facebook Stumbleupon   Newsvine Yahoo bookmarks Mixx   Digg Reddit Google Bookmarks   Twitter LinkedIn       




Popular Now in World


6 Photos
Documents linking CIA and Qaddafi regime


13 Photos
Day in pictures


12 Photos
Day in pictures





Report: China tried to arm Qaddafi near end 
Rebels: Talks over Qaddafi stronghold failed 
Rebels demand surrender of Qaddafi stronghold 
Somalia famine engulfs half the nation 
Vatican rejects Irish critics over sex abuse 
Leaked letter: U.S. forces executed Iraq family 
Syrian security hunting high-profile defector 
Hidden US child porn sites found by Dutch police 
Documents show ties between Libyan spy head, CIA 
Qaddafi's apparently undead daughter 
Iran: Cheap Qurans from China filled with typos 
Powerful quake rocks Indonesia; At least 1 dead 
Suspected meteorite caught on tape in Peru 
U.K. to investigate Libya torture ties 
United plane skids off Ottawa runway 
Why al Qaeda's still a threat in Afghanistan 
Foreign oil, gas firms returning to Libya 



Latest CBS News Headlines

Djokovic, Serena make quarters at US Open
Police: Teen loses legs as she tries to hop train
Libyan spy files document Qaddafi regime's fall
Explosive missing from Phoenix airport recovered

Popular CBS News Stories on Facebook

It's a dirty job, and Mike Rowe's gotta do it
Comedians angry with Jerry Lewis' telethon end
Bachmann on lowering corporate taxes, drilling in Everglades
"Happy Feet" the penguin released into wild
Ala. doctor strengthens tornado-ravaged town

Most Discussed Stories on CBS News


Obama: Times are tough "but we're tougher"


On Labor Day Obama to sell jobs creation


Where have all the jobs gone?


Fact-checking Michele Bachmann on energy


Comedians angry with Jerry Lewis' telethon end



 
 

  



   


Most Popular on CBS News


Stories
More »




01Amanda Knox's appeal resumes in Italy



02Comedians angry with Jerry Lewis' telethon end



03Obama: Times are tough "but we're tougher"



04"Doesn't appear" Palin will run: DeMint



05Google tests world's fastest broadband service






























Videos
More »



01Racy Pippa Middleton photo "embarrassing" for royal family


02Topless model draws Times Square crowd


03The marble of our heroes' headstones







31 Photos |  View Gallery »
"Happy Feet" released into wild



17 Photos |  View Gallery »
John le Carre's spies land at Venice



26 Photos |  View Gallery »
Surf's up! Monster waves hit Calif.



34 Photos |  View Gallery »
2011 U.S. Open tennis tournament



27 Photos |  View Gallery »
Pacino, Chastain at Venice Film Festival




Scroll Left


Scroll Right
More »



   







 CBS News on Facebook              

  CBS News Copyright © 2011 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.              CBSNews.com Site Map Video Site Map Mobile/WAP Site Help Contact Us CBS Bios Careers Internships Development Programs  


Topics
China
United Nations
Social Security
North Korea
Terrorism
Capital Punishment
Immigration
Gay Marriage


Foreclosures
Debt Crisis
Massacre in Norway
Election 2012
Marijuana
Rupert Murdoch


 Follow Us Facebook Twitter RSS Email Newsletters YouTube CBS Mobile 


CBS News Mobile

CBS News for Android


The CBS News app for Android smartphones offers breaking headlines and video as well as the latest from The Early Show, 60 Minutes and more.

Learn more...



    Visit other CBS Interactive sites:  Select Site BNET CBS College Sports CBS Radio CBS.com CBSNews.com CBSSports.com CHOW CNET CNET Channel GameSpot International Last.fm MaxPreps Moblogic MP3.com mySimon NCAA Search.com TechRepublic The Insider TV.com UrbanBaby.com UWIRE Wallstrip ZDNet     BNET CBS College Sports CBS Radio CBS.com CBSNews.com CBSSports.com CHOW CNET CNET Channel GameSpot International Last.fm MaxPreps Moblogic MP3.com mySimon NCAA Search.com TechRepublic The Insider TV.com UrbanBaby.com UWIRE Wallstrip ZDNet   Privacy Policy Terms of Use Mobile User Agreement About CBS Advertise   



    

                 