One-Child Policy | Joe Biden | Administration Clarification | The Daily Caller




























Log In | Register










HOME

POLITICS


US


ENTERTAINMENT


WORLD


SPORTS


BUSINESS


TECH


VIDEO


OPINION

BLOGS

KausFiles
Matt Lewis
DC Trawler
HammerTime
Ask Matt Labash


STORE
SEND TIPS





				September 5, 2011			







Obama administration attempts to clarify Biden’s one-child policy comments


								Published: 4:27 PM  08/23/2011				 | Updated: 10:41 AM  08/24/2011 
			








								By Caroline May 

Bio |
										Archive
					 | Email Caroline May 


 Follow Caroline May
 Get Caroline May Feed


Caroline May is a reporter for The Daily Caller.







Tweet






















 

U.S. Vice President Joe Biden, center, talks to students near Chinese Vice President Xi Jinping, center right, as they visit the Qingchengshan High School in Dujiangyan on the outskirts of Chengdu in southwestern China's Sichuan province, Sunday, Aug. 21, 2011. (AP Photo/Ng Han Guan, POOL) 






In the wake of an onslaught of criticism for Vice President Joe Biden’s comments in China about “not second guessing” the country’s one-child policy, the Obama administration has issued a statement of clarification.
“The Obama Administration strongly opposes all aspects of China’s coercive birth limitation policies, including forced abortion and sterilization,” Biden’s spokeswoman Kendra Barkoff told The Daily Caller in an email. “The Vice President believes such practices are repugnant.”
Barkoff explained that Biden was attempting to critique the restrictive system with his comments.
“He also pointed out, in China, that the policy is, as a practical matter, unsustainable,” Barkoff added. “He was arguing against the One Child Policy to a Chinese audience. ”
Biden came under fire for comments he made during appearance at Sichuan University in Chengdu, China, in which he said that he would “not second-guess” the nation’s one-child policy. That policy has resulted in sterilizations and abortions on a large scale.
“As I was talking to some of your leaders,” Biden said in China, “you share a similar concern here in China. You have no safety net. Your policy has been one which I fully understand — I’m not second-guessing — of one child per family. The result being that you’re in a position where one wage earner will be taking care of four retired people. Not sustainable. So hopefully we can act in a way on a problem that’s much less severe than yours, and maybe we can learn together from how we can do that.”
Republicans and pro-life advocates hit Biden hard for his words. 
House Speaker John Boehner and presidential candidate Mitt Romney also joined the chorus of opposition.
“I’m deeply troubled by the comments reportedly made by the Vice President yesterday regarding China’s reprehensible one-child policy, which has resulted in forced sterilizations and coerced abortions and should not be condoned by any American official,” said Boehner. “No government on Earth has the authority to place quotas on the value of innocent human life, or to treat life as an economic commodity that can be regulated and taken away on a whim by the state.”
“China’s one-child policy is gruesome and barbaric,” Romney said. “Vice President Biden’s acquiescence to such a policy should shock the conscience of every American.”
Follow Caroline on Twitter
Watch:



Tags: China, Joe Biden


 (No Ratings Yet)
 Loading ...









Tweet



















More In Politics






 


Obama pitches partisan Labor Day message





 


Tea party group to Hoffa: Resign!





 


Herman Cain: Hoffa, Dems using vitriolic rhetoric because they have ‘no plan’





 


GOP presidential candidates audition before conservative heavyweights





 


Hoffa on tea party, congressional conservatives: ‘Let’s take these sons of bitches out!’





 


Perry pulls out of event due to wildfires back home








 


Obama to spend Labor Day at Detroit AFL-CIO rally





 


Mixed N.J. response to President Obama’s visit





 


FBI arrests prominent Democratic campaign treasurer





 


Dick Cheney praises Hillary Clinton





 


Cheney: US different if Hillary Clinton president





 


Sarah Palin mum on presidential ambitions during Iowa speech








 


Cantor, McCarthy hit the fundraising circuit on behalf of GOP freshmen





 


Facing voter discontent, lawmakers skip town halls





 


Perry used jet of donor facing fraud probe





 


As race ramps up, GOP asks if Perry can stay atop





 


Obama repeats call for Congress to extend transportation funding





 


Palin keeps 2012 talk alive with Iowa appearance








 


Newt’s Trillion Dollar Answer: Sell Alaska?





 


Former Labor Secretary Robert Reich on Clinton: ‘We didn’t inhale together’





 


Calls for more regulatory restraint come after Obama halts EPA ozone plan





 


‘Super’ debt reduction committee to meet September 8





 


Perry campaign fires back at Bachmann Super PAC





 


Cheney dubious on Palin’s political prospects








 


Former DNC chair: GOP would win control of Congress if elections held now





 


Perry: Does Obama have something against Texas?





 


Capitol Hill sports college themes





 


New Fast and Furious details indicate gov’t cover-up, White House involvement





 


Role of Bachmann’s campaign in 2012 race still up in the air





 


Obama’s terrible, horrible, no good, very bad month








 


White House defends reversal on smog rule





 


Obama to EPA: Back down from new ozone regulations





 


Palin should stay out of race, Fox Poll finds





 


Romney attacks Perry as ‘career politician’





 


New Amodei ad labels Marshall as ‘rubber stamp’ for Obama





 


Kristol: Michele Bachmann’s attack ad on Rick Perry ‘pathetic’















    http://pulse.yahoo.com/_MLC4OZY3N53Q4KTMYGNSHSIWTE                            IMWright



CLARIFY his comments??  first you’d have to CLARIFY what little brain this clown has left!!







MJHBAMA



Hang in there folks.  They just need to make excuses for Joey B again.  It may take a while since they have to research and find a Conservative who might have said something more idiotic at sometime in the past.  Preferably a Vice-President.







LauraRose



Too late for clarifications, the statement was made and common knowledge throughout. No amount of damage control will excuse Biden’s comments. I wonder when Biden wakes in the morning what prompts him to open his eyes?







Reason



It is amazing that a man this stupid is but the proverbial one heartbeat from becoming the most powerful person in the world.  do you remember when – just prior to Obama’s VP announcement in 2008 – TV moderators reminded us that a candidate’s VP nominee was crucial because it indicated the thinking of the Presidential candidate?  If so, how in the hell could anyone in their right mind – knowing how much of a bozo – have thought Obama, too, was any more than a doofus and vote for those two?
When I heard the announcement, i almost fell off my sofa with laughter. 







Anonymous



Help me out here!!!!!!   How is “Not second guessing” a policy actually
“a critique of a restrictive system”.    I guess when the MSM is on your side you can get away with this kind of thing. 







ladylove



once again this administration has to CLARIFY SOMETHING.
from Mrs, Obama and her telling us how she hated AMERICA, right through to today,  
again
they said what they meant,
and they meant what they said
they are all idiots
100 percent







Anonymous



Why do they let Joe get on a plane and go anywhere????







    http://pulse.yahoo.com/_EI5BFYHGBU3RLZJ2F5HGGGN7RA                            Edward



Super Lip Old Fart strikes again………….







Anonymous



Biden:  What? What did I say?  Look I was just talking…just stringing words together.  Hell, I don’t even know what I said.  Where am I anyway?  Besides you should be hunting down Tea Party terrorists anyway.  Look I’ll be nominated in 2016.  Don’t worry about it.  Did I tell you how well the stimulus worked?  You know that Barack isn’t as articulate as I thought.  Maybe he should step down in 2012….what?  What did I say now?  Oh hell.  You can just bite me.  I’m going to be the next big effing deal one of these days and I actually have a birth certificate.







    http://www.facebook.com/people/Pocho-Basura/100002485653016                            Pocho Basura



No Secret Service Agents were injured while wrestling VP Bidens foot to the ground as it approached his mouth…………







truebearing



If the Whitehouse really wanted to clarify Biden’s moronic comments, here is what they should being saying: “Joe Biden is a complete moron. He stomps on his crank everywhere he goes and is an embarrassment to the nation, second only to President Obama”.
The real truth, however, is that the Whitehouse is lying through their teeth, yet again. The support China’s policy of eugenics. What Progressive doesn’t love eugenics? 
Obama appointed a Malthusian nut job, John Holdren, as his Science Czar, and Holdren has advocated draconian population control measures in books he’s written that recommend the very things China is doing, and some that are even worse. Holdren has advocated forced sterilization of women and literally taking babies away from parents who have “unauthorized” children. He has advocated putting sterilants in the drinking water.
The fact is, Biden and Obama are part of the radical leftist enviromental religion that has stated goals of reducing the human population to as little as 350,000,000 people, which is roughly one 16th of the current human population. Some enviro-loonies want it reduced to only 100,000,000 people, which is one 60th of the current total population. They also believe this needs to be done soon, not over hundreds of years, so do the math. That means extensive application of eugenics, which is a nice way of saying “exterminate people”.
As usual, the Whitehouse is telling us we didn’t hear, or see, correctly. Like when Obama was video taped bowing so low to the King of Saudi Arabia that he could have licked his toes. They told us our eyes betrayed us and he didn’t really bow….but then, why would they tell the truth to the citizens of a nation they are trying to destroy.







Anonymous



I suppose the average Chinese worker always wondered why a prosperous country like the US would send all its manufacturing jobs to China and then wonder why unemployment skyrocketed and the debt is spiraling upwards. But…now they’ve had a chance to see America’s number two guy in action they probably have a better understanding of how America could think it was a smart move. 







Liberalsareblind



What utter and complete BS!  That comment by Biden was a comment straight from his heart.  I don’t believe this backtracking BS for a second!  This was a cowardly comment that condoned China’s human rights violations as a sin of omission.  Not condemning human rights violations is just as much of a sin as condoning it in my book, and that’s exactly what Biden did in his original comment.   







Anonymous



What ‘Open Mouth Insert Foot’ Biden really meant to say is that he wouldn’t second-guess China’s one-child policy if it could be applied to Tea Party terrorists and any other traitorous American citizens who opposed Dumbo’s brilliant policies…but just then a wayward wonton stuck to the roof of his mouth, so he couldn’t finish his sentence.







    http://www.opaobie.com/promisekept.php                            TEWS_Pilot



Think of the money Obama saves not having to buy life insurance by having Biden as his VP.







Anonymous



crazy pelosi: “We need to pass the bill (obozocare) so we can find out what’s in it.”
Has anybody yet figured out whether obozocare includes FORCED ABORTIONS BY GOVERNMENT DECREE in addition to taxpayer-funded abortions?







    http://www.lifenews.com/2011/08/23/biden-spokeswoman-walks-back-comments-on-one-child-policy/                            Biden Spokeswoman Walks Back Comments on One-Child Policy | LifeNews.com



[...] Barkoff told The Daily Caller in an email that Biden and the Obama administration strongly oppose the policy — but the [...]







truebearing



Evil idiots.
Hello BB! How are you doing? Good to see you’re laying the wood to Mi-Shell-Out-The-Taxpayers-Dollars.







Anonymous



Hmmm… wonder if Obama will use this to throw Biden under his big black bus and get himself a Hispanic candidate?







    http://www.unifiedpatriots.com/2011/08/23/biden-says-china%e2%80%99s-one-child-policy-not-a-bfd/takkat                            Biden says China’s One Child Policy not a BFD



[...] Oh, please. He was against it before he was for it or something. Tweet Me!Subscribe to this author's RSS [...]







MJHBAMA



Well, he would probably pick someone totally unbiased.  A bipartisan genius who will willingly work with the opposition and resolve all differences.  His personal pick will probably be Anthoney Weiner or some equally qualified person for the position.







Paul



Anybody else think that somebody with the name “Barkoff” as a spokesperson for Biden is nothing less than hilarious? 







ladylove



improving every day
numbness slowly going away
big milestone, I sat down at sewing machine and did some sewing, may seem trivial to some, but it was something big to me.
I type with my left hand, somewhat, have to fix mistakes time to tyime,
but as I said I am improving,  yeahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh







pepito



What a freaking idiot! This guy is out of control…
ps… just like his boss.







Anonymous



Lately, it seems like the dems have to spend more time ‘fixing’ the statements of the One and Two, then any other task! Would it help much if they kept their mouths closed?







Anonymous



Great progress, milady! Keep it up!







SteveM



Nitwit Gasbag Biden with his untethered yap is more dangerous than any DC earthquake…







Anonymous



Actually, they probably have one person whose sole job is as a Biden apologist, spinner, explaner, and denier.







Anonymous



You made me laugh outloud, and that doesn’t happen very often.  thank you!







Anonymous



Joe Biden just mouthed what they say behind closed doors in that administration.
The leader, Obama, is a man without compassion and it shows in everything he does and doesn’t do. He’ll sacrifice the unborn, human rights whatever it takes to bring down the capitalist system he despises.







jmk1502



Why should Biden have to “apologize” for making the obvious statement that China is an autonomous nation who can institute whatever policies they choose? Are you idiots advocating the US try to control China? Maybe we should invade them because of their one-child policy. The US should really start minding our own business; it’s bad enough our military has to be sent to fight for other nation’s raw materials and natural resources, as they have been since WWII. Now maybe we should start demanding other nations obey our “morality”? Talk about hypocrisy.







barryswhitehalf



Here’s the clarification: The dude who implanted Joe’s hairplugs went a little too deep with his instrument and inadvertently performed a crude yet effective frontal lobotomy.







Anonymous



An apologist doesn’t apologize/  He/she makes a defense in speech or writing for what he/she believes.    Biden should just have kept his mouth shut.







Anonymous



Thanks for the reference to Holdren. I looked him up. Isn’t he a real piece of work – figures Obama tapped him to help the cause.







ladylove



thank you kind sir







lillymckim



Sending Biden to China to calm the fears regarding our economy … really? they send in Biden?







TommyV



you my friend are a supreme idiot….just like Biden!







TommyV



That means you jmk!







    http://www.facebook.com/people/Ben-Blankenship/1496323129                            Ben Blankenship



If you think Biden’s mouthing off about China was bad, how about his terrible obscenity in blurting out, over the protests of Gates and the Pentagon, it’s said, the Navy Seals’ ID in killing OSB. And a short time later, the terrorists shoot down the helicopter full of troops from the same unit. Coincidence? Inquest, please







8second Ride



I’m with you there!!







Jim Treacher



So when he called you a terrorist, he really meant you’re terriffic!







Vato



what a steaming pant load…………..







Anonymous



Well, where is the left-leaning media making obnoxious statements about Biden’s stupidity?







    http://twitter.com/DickFox39                            Dick Fox



I think we should impose a no child policy on progressives.







Anonymous



worse yet, he calls himself a Catholic. He should just be tossed out of church for good, or go back and read the Bible a few times…







Russ311



Obama is using the U.S. military to fight for Europe’s access to Libya’s oil under the laughable excuse of the United Nations’ Responsibility to Protect.  Obama has made the U.S. the U.N’s policeman of the world.  And you were praising His Grace yesterday, Jabril.  Hypocrisy indeed.







lilolme



I need NOTHING clarified.  I heard what the Village Idiot said.  I can still hear the echoes of the Left calling George Bush an idiot.  I never heard ANYTHING come out of his mouth to equal the stupidity that comes out of this administration’s.  I want out of this nightmare.  Next November can’t come soon enough!







Russ311



The hope of the Progressives is to follow China’s one-child policy.  Biden also says in the same speech that, ”It’s hard to define what an American is.  Shortly, 50 percent of the American population — less than 50 percent will be of European stock.”  Obama’s backdoor amnesty and open borders policies is a means to that end.  Gotta make room for those incoming statist government dependents and future Democrat voters.







Anonymous



Obama has no problem with our government killing babies, just not COERCIVE killing.
And no problem with government birth control, just not COERCIVE birth control.







    http://twitter.com/aemoreira81                            Adam Moreira



There is no way to clarify – or for that matter, explain –  the Human Gaffe Machine’s comments; Obama should not have even tried.







    http://www.opaobie.com/promisekept.php                            TEWS_Pilot



Sad.  How much more intelligent Biden used to sound back in the days when he stuttered….







    http://www.opaobie.com/promisekept.php                            TEWS_Pilot



Yes, and it’s really “sad but true”.  Just think how much more intelligent Biden used to sound back in the days when he stuttered….







Mkurbo



Look everybody, I do business in Asia and the Chinese are methodically beyond your imagination.  They know we (U.S.) pegged the needle out to the left side of the political spectrum and will see a “correction” to the right of center in the next election.  They view everything in a long term context and they see us fixing the liberal left mess and moving forward as a competitive superpower that they need to be concerned with for the foreseeable future (many decades in their view).  They see their investment in the U.S. as  1.) Necessary to their continued economic growth,  2.) A hedge against certain foreseeable conflicts of interest, and 3.)  An insurance policy in regard to their great future needs for food, energy, and technology (contrary to what the media and educational entities put forth – they respect our technological abilities greatly).







Anonymous



He calls his own fellow citizens terrorists. Why wouldn’t he cozy up to the Chicoms?







Anonymous



He calls his own fellow citizens terrorists. Why wouldn’t he cozy up to the Chicoms?







Anonymous



He calls his own fellow citizens terrorists. Why wouldn’t he cozy up to the Chicoms?







    http://profiles.google.com/lmdtexasusa                            Privacy Violation



Looks like they drilled too deep and hit soft tissue when they were installing his hair plugs.







    http://profiles.google.com/lmdtexasusa                            Privacy Violation



Or even better they could dredge up an obscure British politician whose speech they could say he accidentally plagiarized.







T2



maybe picking Biden as VP was a good call – I hope he keeps opening his mouth – particularly with bo’s approval numbers where they are!!!







lvjohn



Its hard to figure who is stupider mr. vacationer or the imbecilic jackass who is the vice president







centexan



What twit sent this guy to China? Oh…that one.  I thought maybe it was Immelt.







notalone



Clarify something that this idiot blabbered out.  Miracles still happen but that would take more then a miracle – dear old joie never disappoints.







truebearing



Good for you, sweety!
I know how important the sewing is. My wife had to quit because of a neck problem and she misses it a lot. We’re trying to figure out how she can do at least some. 
Keep working at it and keep the faith! You’ll get there!







Anonymous



Voluntary compliance with the one-child policy would be ideal the world over.  If each woman had only one child that would be a very good thing.







Anonymous



Voluntary compliance with the one-child policy would be ideal the world over.  If each woman had only one child that would be a very good thing.







thephranc



How exactly?







    http://pulse.yahoo.com/_6IQSQMP5W2PFYRK7L567ONOLWY                            Fred



Tell that to your brother of sister and see what they say.  They might agree with YOU!







Anonymous



What he said is what he said, unless we need a clear definition of what “is” means. Parsing words and phrases to fool the American public? Say it ain’t so Joe.







Anonymous



…all libs should be forced to only produce ONE offspring…which will turn out queer…win win…







Unbelievable



Doesn’t Obama’s science czar (or what ever they want to call him) John Holdren believe in force sterilization and being able to abort a baby up to 2 years old? Isn’t he the author of a book about this?







jmk1502



I think we should certainly impose an age limit on worthless old slugs – when you hit a certain age, you get the needle, as geriatrics drive up the cost of health care tremendously, contribute nothing to society, and most importantly, keep our country from moving forward instead of backward since they want things to remain as they were “in THEIR day”. But that’s just me – a young (34) whippersnapper punk who is ageist.







Anonymous



yet obama support live birth abortions…. huh..







    http://davidwebbshow.com/2011/08/24/obama-administration-attempts-to-clarify-biden%e2%80%99s-one-child-policy-comments/                            Obama administration attempts to clarify Biden’s one-child policy comments (video) | David Webb



[...] policies, including forced abortion and sterilization,” Biden’s spokeswoman Kendra Barkoff told The Daily Caller in an email. “The Vice President believes such practices are [...]







Anonymous



ONE child…that worked so well for China where “one-child” boy babies grew up & can’t find enough grown-up girl babies to start the next generation of one-child families (Mao would be so proud).  Maybe some liberal social engineer like John Holdren can come up with a “voluntary” policy of who’s “allowed” to bear the man-child & who “must” bear the female.  Oops, check out Obamacare….it’s probably already in there.







ladylove



you can’t clarify stupid it is what it is







ladylove



no he meant he is afraid of us







clh



That is why the dems are fighting so hard to keep our hard earned dollars going into Planned Parenthood.  They want to limit the whites from producing, but you can bank on the fact that the Muslims will get a waiver, just like in health care and TSA gropings.







Anonymous



And I’ve decided the “age limit” on “worthless old slugs” should be….33.  Sorry, lie down & roll up you sleeve.







Anonymous



Gee, I thought they drilled too deep when they were doing the lobotomy.







Anonymous



Writer hopes you read: share link: “Why I Hate Obama” & “Explaining Obama’s Brilliance To Those Too Slow To Get It” & “Feeling Anti-Amnesty Guilt? No. US Resources For Veterans and our Elderly.” http://contributor.yahoo.com/user/1017868/sheila_dunnells_phd.html







    http://www.facebook.com/people/Barack-Mugabe/100002323247419                            Barack Mugabe



What’s the surprise here?  The radical left in this country shares the same totalitarian mindset of the Communists in China.







Dduck226



It’s tough to be Joe Biden when you constantly have both feet stuck in your mouth all the time.







Dduck226



scary isn’t it!







ladylove



I am sorry to hear that, I got a chair from an office supply store, that helps, and titled my sewing machine towards me, very slightly,  they also make a back support with light weights to help keep back in alignment, one is called body rite, the posture pleaser it can be found at quilt in a day, under quilting notions.
 
please let her know I understand,







ladylove



truebearing this was meant for you







    http://www.clotureclub.com/2011/08/0824-lunchtime-links/                            Tuesday’s Lunchtime Links



[...] Joe Biden opened his mouth again. Surprise, something stupid came out. (dailycaller) [...]







Txbatman1



Proof positive that this administration just makes it up as they go along.   The only planning going on at the White house is for Vacations, Parties, playing golf, and his Highasses re-election, which has been going on since January 20, 2009







SCgirl



Just another statement confirming this administration is completely over their heads and incredibly foolish.







joeaiello



President Obama is still trying to clean up Dick Cheney’s mess. It’s called Iraq.







Anonymous



By creating his own mess called Libya? 







Anonymous



Where do you people come from? 







bigdave



Look up “IDIOT” in th dictionary. BIDEN’s picture is there.







    http://www.facebook.com/people/Cheryl-Jessup/100000366944083                            Cheryl Jessup



The liberal Democrat party is the party of death. They think nothing of spending millions to save some dam lizard or minnow, but don’t bat an eye at killling a human. About the only thing Obama voted for in his short time in the Senate was partial birth abortion. About the only abortion I would haved approved with would been Obama’s mother having one when she was pj with him







aposematic



Just another Democrat Party attempt to explain that a Democrat didn’t say what the Democrat did say explanation of what the Democrat really meant to say but the Democrat didn’t say.







DANIEL CABRERA



Actually there is no need for the current adminstration try to make ammendments about what Biden, or Obama or anyone say about anything. The entire Obama regime is totaly depleted,… no credibility left and whatever they can speak our about anything at all, is completely irrelevant.
This people failed averyone - BIG TIME! – din’t they?;… so, no matter if Biden, and  Holdren (everyone know who this guy is, right? , and others liberal applaud and support euthanasia,…or if there are 57 states (as Obama , the propagandist and front-face said),… or if the word -’jobs -’ has three letters,…or if they want to claim that the blasted ‘stimulus’ works  (although the entire economy is sunk all the way up to the ears);….no matter what absurd statement they can put out there  – the truth is that their days are counting backwards….and they know that very well.
So who are this people?….they are only a group forgrd from the Chicago very corrupted political atmosphere and they are – still – very dedicated and interested to perpetuate the ongoing sabotage against our great country.
Should we, the american public question their patriotism?…absolutely NO!, for there is no even an iota of patriotism in none of them,… they are a pack of anti-constitutionalists without any merits  whatsoever to be at the helm of this great nation. This group (THE OBAMA BAND OF GLOBALIST, TERRORIST-FRIENDLY ORIENTED) adquired their platform as result of DECEPTION, FALSE REPRESENTATION AND FRAUD…and now it is time to put them all down.
Input anyone?  Opinions welcome.
Daniel Cabrera
Merrillville,Indiana







Realist4U



Joe! Your doctors got their instructions mixed up. They were supposed to fix your brain, not remove it!







    http://profiles.yahoo.com/u/B6F63QRD25KIPZ5J5I2A3AVYL4                            Red



You can’t blame a stupid man when he’s facing a room full of his creditors.   Frankly I’m surprised Joey didn’t kiss their feet and offer to be the Premier’s house boy when this gig is up.







    http://profiles.yahoo.com/u/B6F63QRD25KIPZ5J5I2A3AVYL4                            Red



You can’t blame a stupid man when he’s facing a room full of his creditors.   Frankly I’m surprised Joey didn’t kiss their feet and offer to be the Premier’s house boy when this gig is up.







Anonymous



Let me help them clarify the comment – Biden is a moron.







    http://profiles.yahoo.com/u/B6F63QRD25KIPZ5J5I2A3AVYL4                            Red



Does it hurt being that stupid?  It should.







Anonymous



When you clarify a comments, it means everyone knows what you said and understands it. NOW you have to LIE. And we know oBUMo knows how to LIE.







    http://www.chinausfocus.com/u-s-news/obama-administration-attempts-to-clarify-biden%e2%80%99s-one-child-policy-comments/                            Obama administration attempts to clarify Biden’s one-child policy comments | CHINA US Focus



[...] Obama Administration strongly opposes all aspects of China’s coercive birth limitation policies, including forced abortion and sterilization,” Biden’s spokeswoman [...]







Barry



John Holdren is the moron that was ranting that the hole in the ozone was causing the Earth to enter a new Ice Age during the late 60′s and early 70′s. The inconvenient fact that the Earth was warming at the time caused him to have to change his mantra to “global warming”, but all the Humans still needed to be exterminated in order to save the planet!







Jim



This speaks volumes for the mentality of voters, in all 57 states.







Anonymous



Why did Biden feel compelled to say anything at all?
We all knew when this dufus went over there he was gonna say some stupid things.
When are we gonna get a President or Vice President that is no afraid to say what they think?







Anonymous



If you read, re-read, and read again his comments, you can see that he MAY have been trying to soften his criticism of the foreign power who holds most of our debts.  
Does that make him a brilliant man or diplomat?  No, not by a long shot.  But I don’t think he was actually saying he supports the ‘one child” policy.  Just that he doesn’t not support it…Wait. Now I’M confused again.
Damn you Joe Biden!







centexan



The man needs a shock collar for any time he opens his mouth.  I wonder how many staffers it takes in the WH to keep up with his comments and explain them away.







Rowwdy



Let’s see we have the Liar in Chief and then there is the Plagiarist in 2nd place.  What exactly did America expect?  Two of the most deceitful people to ever be elected and people expect even a shred of common decency?  
Obamao and his thugs have managed to screw up a great deal of America, but what matters now is….the coming year.  You best believe Obamao and the rest of the Marxists have yet to really put the screws to us.  I will not be 1 bit surprised when that fool declares martial law when he loses.







    http://brianekoenig.com/2011/08/joe-biden-not-second-guessing-chinas-one-child-policy/                            Joe Biden: Not ‘Second-Guessing” China’s One-Child Policy | Brian Koenig



[...] During an appearance at Sichuan University in Chengdu, China, Biden said he would “not second-guess” China’s one-child policy.  Hmm, I wonder if the Vice President knows that China’s one-child policy advocates forced abortions and sterilizations – not particularly popular for Republican and pro-life organizations.  So naturally, here comes the political retraction: [...]







Anonymous



Why do they need to “clarify” these things? We can all understand Biden and don’t really need the White House (whoever that is) to tell us how to interpret his idiocy.
They only dig themselves in deeper by issuing patronizing statements as if we’re all gonna say “Oh, I misinterpreted, Joe. Thanks for setting me straight.”







junkmaninohio



Do we really want 4 more years of this guy…and his boss??? Really???







Anonymous



As usual, the apologists for this administration say “what you heard was abc, but what he meant was xyz, Hope that clears up your misunderstanding”.







    http://pulse.yahoo.com/_UFTI3QJ3TKPE4AS3EMSH6OZ5QM                            4sailing



It would shock and dismay us if the words were not spoken by the village idiot (but watch out China, because in case you missed it Biden is trotted out anytime Obama wants to break bad news and doesn’t want to do it personally – think 2nd stimulus and it will all be clear)







    http://pulse.yahoo.com/_UFTI3QJ3TKPE4AS3EMSH6OZ5QM                            4sailing



Three letter word JOBS – biden is a moron







Jess81



So, why are we surprised that the evil doctrines that guide this administration are spoken quite openly to people who think nothing of murdering 10′s of millions of human beings?  I recall quite clearly Obama’s support of late-term abortions in Illinois and further, his support for doctors who murdered the new born baby IF it managed to surive the in-womb murder.  The life of the mother and all that…and if anyone here can name one condition where the mother’s life will be saved in the 7th or 8th month by murdering the baby, I’d like to hear it.  It’s such a prevalent condition, hundreds of thousands of pregancies suffer from it….
And then there’s Obama’s own, personal Dr. Mengela, the science czar who sees nothing at all wrong with putting sterilization drugs in the water supply and limiting the number of children…
Joe Biden is a fool and a clown and slightly stupid.  Now we also know that he’s basically without conscience.  And the libs said Sarah Palin was stupid and dangerous.  No wonder they were outraged by Trig’s birth.  The left has always been demonic.







    http://itmakessenseblog.com/2011/08/25/biden-spokesperson-backtracks-on-his-statement-regarding-china%e2%80%98s-%e2%80%99one-child-policy/                            BIDEN SPOKESPERSON BACKTRACKS ON HIS STATEMENT REGARDING CHINA‘S ’ONE-CHILD POLICY



[...] however, Biden’s spokeswoman Kendra Barkoff told The Daily Caller in an email that Biden and the Obama administration condemn China’s one-child policy, [...]







    http://www.bernardgoldberg.com/who%e2%80%99s-the-dummy/                            Joe Biden fully understands China’s one-child policy which includes forced and gender-based abortions, sterilization and infanticide.



[...] expected, in the wake of the inevitable criticism, Biden’s spokesperson, Kendra Barkoff, in an email, said the following, “The Obama Administration strongly opposes all aspects [...]







    http://pulse.yahoo.com/_SB7NVY6UZB332CMBWU7JTGHP2U                            Jim



 I wish someone here had the balls and guts to say this to our people. Too many people is dangerous to the planet. Fact! If people cannot see this then they are dillusional. At present rate we will overpopulate ourselves into destruction. Look around and see how many pristine places that we are loosing every day. More people, more famine, more disease, more war.
 Oh by all means tell everybody to have 10 kids. Have more, who cares. You think there is traffic now, wait until there are 2 or 3 times as many people driving on the road…….Oh I forgot, there won’t be enough jobs for them to go to so forget what I said. Besides, the price of gasoline will be so high who can afford to drive. But then again……we all love having large families.
 So go ahead and criticize a man for telling the truth and trying to wake up humanity.


























 TheDC Links   
						 TheDC Morning
					








Video

 





Most Popular



Most Popular
Most Emailed




											Tea party group to Hoffa: Resign!






 

											Off The Hoffa




 


											Dick Cheney hints that Hillary Clinton would have been better than Obama




 


											Leaders with Ginni Thomas: Vicki McKenna, Wisconsin radio host




 


											Lauren Bush ties the knot with David Lauren




 


											GOP candidates audition before conservative heavyweights




											Herman Cain: Hoffa, Dems using vitriolic rhetoric because they have 'no plan'




 


											'Glee' actress participates in 'bruised-up Barbie shoot'






 

											NJ residents bristle at Obama's disaster visit




 


											Obama pitches partisan Labor Day message





Most Popular
Most Emailed




 


								Dem. Hill staffers head to Maui on taxpayers' dime for Senate hearing




 


								Rep. Maxine Waters: 'The tea party can go straight to hell'




 


								Al Gore: Global warming skeptics this generation's racists






 

								Bankrupt solar tech company produced at least $137,000 for Obama in '08






 

								Conference aims to normalize pedophilia




 


								Did Rep. Barney Frank fart on live TV? [VIDEO]




								Britain’s criminal utopia




 


								Research: Obamacare cost estimates hide up to $50 billion per year




								JAMES POULOS: Dems need to dump Obama before it's too late






 

								Three North Carolina Democrats admit voting twice for Obama



















STAY CONNECTED TO 







About Us
				 | 				Contact Us
				 | 				Privacy Policy
				 | 				Terms of Use
				 | 				Advertise With Us
				 | 				Make The Daily Caller Your Homepage


		
		Copyright © 2011 The Daily Caller
		
	










 




















Powered by the Parse.ly Publisher Platform (P3).










