Financial Samurai - powered by FeedBurner
&



Financial Samurai

syndicated content powered by FeedBurner






...

Reset this favorite; show all Subscribe options



Subscribe Now!
...with web-based news readers. Click your choice below:







...with other readers:

(Choose Your Reader)FeedDemonNetNewsWireNewsFireNewsGator Outlook EditionRSSOwlShrookUniversal Subscription Mechanism (USM)


Get Financial Samurai delivered by email


 View Feed XML




FeedBurner makes it easy to receive content updates in My Yahoo!, Newsgator, Bloglines, and other news readers.

Learn more about syndication and FeedBurner...

Current Feed Content



Is It Better To Give Randomly Or Selectively?


Posted: Sun, 04 Sep 2011 09:00:09 +0000





One of the funnest things about being a part of the online community is the ability to host giveaways and win things as well.  The predominant way hosts choose winners is randomized, likely for “fairness” sake and also so that the host doesn’t have to choose.  I can see the merits of randomization, but I do not agree with the process.
Some of the ways to improve your chances of winning a giveaway include linking back, commenting, subscribing, and tweeting.  The goal is to publicize the host’s site as much possible, which sounds good to me.  It’s a mutually beneficial exercise because you can win too.  Hence, if you have someone who is better able to better publicize your site, shouldn’t they not get stronger consideration?  What if a contestant said he could get you mentioned on Oprah, wouldn’t you rather give that prize to him?
I also believe in meritocracy, hence if someone writes a long comment addressing a question with a thorough solution, she definitely is higher on the consideration chain than someone who leaves a one-liner with little thought.   Have you seen some of the comments on this site?  They are like novels and I’m blown away at times!  There’s no way I cannot respond.
Finally, imagine if there was a scholarship contest where all you have to do is enter to win instead of write an essay.  Your essay could just consist of the words, “Boomshakala, gimme, gimme, gimme, badabada, ding dong!“  The effort put into the scholarship is not through writing something fantastic, but through submitting to as many scholarships with random selection processes as possible.  In essence, you are matching the selection process numbers game with your own numbers game.  It’s all good, but the result is that the host won’t have the quality following for the long term that she seeks.
IS IT BETTER TO RECEIVE THAN TO GIVE?
I love winning prizes probably because I hardly win anything at all.  Yes, I could go to the Apple store and buy an iPad 2 as a business expense, and so can you, but that’s not as fun as winning one.  Who doesn’t love the feeling of winning?
If ever I win anything, I feel a deep sense of gratitude, and I will undoubtedly give back at least double the amount of love in return.  A couple years ago I won an $500 essay contest sponsored by Joel from Credit Card Chaser called “Are Credit Cards Weapons Of Mass Financial Destruction?“.  That contest led to a very fruitful relationship.  Joel received a decent amount of traffic from my site, as well as other traffic due to his Yakezie Network list which he created and I sanctioned.  I’m happy to help Joel with any projects he has!
You know the saying, “It’s always better to give than to receive“?  It’s there because some people go to great lengths to give back much more because they are so appreciative.  There are those who fight to pay the bill vs. those who give up easily, suddenly see their arms shrink into their pockets or strategically go to the bathroom before the bill?  You’ll never be able to pay the bill if we’re going out for the first time I promise!
Here are two giveaways I’ve entered from sites I visit and owners I know:
* Derek from Life and My Finances is hosting an iPad 2 giveaway.
* Bob from Christian PF wrote a good post called “How To Escape The Rat Race” is also hosting an iPad 2 giveaway.
The chances of me winning an iPad 2 from either Derek or Bob is slim-to-none because everybody comes out of the woodwork when there is a giveaway.  It’s like all your long lost friends who start pinging you, “Heeeeeyahh!” after you win the lottery or come into a position of importance.  As soon as they find out you don’t have money, you can’t give anything, or that someone else wins, they go back into the woodwork and patiently wait.
FOCUS ON LONG TERM RELATIONSHIPS
Given this natural phenomenon, I really try and focus on choosing those participants who have shown consistency in participation.  They don’t necessarily have to be site-owners or big kahunas, they just have to be people I know who will still be here tomorrow and not forget my name as soon as they win. In other words, focus on the quality of the relationship not the quantity of relationships.
This is one of the main reasons why it takes 6 months to even be considered a Yakezie Member.  Six months weeds out those who don’t have the endurance to stick around for the long run.  If they do make it past the six month Challenge, not only will they develop plenty of rewarding relationships, they will probably make thousands of extra dollars a year.  The act of helping another out is immensely gratifying and something we plan to do for as long as possible.
The great thing as readers of Financial Samurai is that you can click on the giveaway links above, tweet their posts and win too!  Forget about writing a 900 word post like I have here which argues for the merits of being more selective.  And if you win an iPad 2, I’m sure you will break it in two and give me half!
Readers, what do you think is better, selective or random selection?  This can apply to charities, contests, and promotions. 
What are the reasons why to employ random giving?
Regards,
Sam
 

Related posts:Which Is Better: iPhone 4 or iPad 3G?
Much Poorer But Also Much Richer Too




Attacking Your Debt From All Angles


Posted: Sun, 04 Sep 2011 06:08:44 +0000





The following is a guest post by Jasmine from Check N’ Go.
With the miserable state of the economy today, some are desperate to find ways to reduce their debt without filing bankruptcy or losing their home and savings.  The sad reality for many is that bankruptcy and foreclosure are the only events on their financial horizon.
In order to attack debt and free yourself from financial woes, it’s going to require some creative use of existing resources and changing the way you approach debt reduction.
Change Your Habits
For those with large amounts of credit card debt, it can be difficult to find the extra money to pay even the minimum balance on some of their cards. But a little effort can go a long way and extra cash can be made available for paying more than the minimum on at least a few credit card balances.
But this will entail some lifestyle changes. Reducing the amount of money you spend on convenience such as fast food, lunch out at work or luxury weekend dates can provide an untapped resource for cash that can be used to pay more than the minimum on credit cards.
What about downsizing your car? Taking public transportation more often? Imagine the money you could save by not having to fill up your gas tank every week!
Living beyond available means is probably the most common way many people get into debt in the first place! Lean towards a simpler way of life and not only will you pay off your debt faster, you may even learn to appreciate the freedom simplicity offers.
Get A Low Interest Credit Card, Or No Credit Card At All
Another method for reducing credit card debt is to shift the balance from your high interest card to a low interest one. Beware though! Credit card companies are catching on and imposing fine print penalties for trying to carry over debts.
While shifting balances from higher interest cards to lower interest cards is a time honored tradition among those looking to reduce their monthly payments, consumers must use this process carefully now, as credit card companies are now offering introductory 0% interest for six, eight or twelve months with fine print that consumers often miss.
Little known to most consumers, there are now catches involved with that 0% introductory rate that often require consumers to not transfer their balances to other cards for a period of time that is longer than the introductory rate.
Shifting balances from high interest cards to new no interest cards is great, as long as consumers follow the rules. If not, consumers can often find themselves in a worse situation than before. Transferring balances frequently, or “card-hopping”, can incur significant penalty interest fees if not done correctly. If a consumer is looking to transfer their debt to a low interest card, from a high interest card, get an airmiles card, or any other benefits type card for that matter.  This can allow for travel and vacations without costing a significant amount of ready cash.
Take Out The Big Guns
Other options for bringing down your debt could be taking out a home equity loan, cashing out a 401K, taking a loan against a life insurance policy, borrowing money from friends and loved ones.  However, these options are often out of reach for most consumers in serious financial trouble.
At that point, you should look into trying to settle your credit card debt, for less than the total owed. You can try renegotiating the balances on credit cards and loans directly. Not all credit card companies are going to go for this, especially if the consumer has chronic late payments or overcharges. But if the majority of your payments are on-time and within their credit limits, debt settlement can be a great alternative for reducing balances and interest on debt.
If renegotiating does not work, often the threat of bankruptcy will force the credit card company’s hand to reduce the balance or interest on a card. The credit card company does not want a consumer to default on their debt, as they rarely get paid anywhere near the balance owed in a bankruptcy settlement.
If all else fails, or the debt amount is too extreme, bankruptcy may be the only option. Prior to filing for liquidation or restructuring, you should exhaust every other method available, both common and uncommon.

Related posts:Small Business Credit Card Issuers: The Good, The Bad, and The Ugly
How To Pay Off $35,000 In Credit Card Debt In One Month




Are There Really People Who Only Work 40 Hours A Week Or Less?


Posted: Wed, 31 Aug 2011 09:00:10 +0000





There have been a number of data points recently that have caught me off guard.  Apparently, there are people in this world who actually work 40 hours a week or less and complain why they can’t get ahead!  I understand if you are retired, a student, handicapped, or under-employed how you might not work 40 hours a week.  But, I’ve only heard about places like France where people work less than 40 hours a week and start going on strike if they have to work more!
Working 40 hours a week or less is fantastic if you are happy with your income and career, not bored out of your mind, and can get away with it.  Unfortunately, I am neither skilled enough to do what I want with that little amount of time, nor do I have the courage to work so little for what I am being compensated for.  I think I would probably get fired if I worked that little.  Besides, I have about 80-90 hours of work energy in me a week now, might as well utilize it before it fades.  How about you?
Data point #1: Two women on the bus were chatting next to me and explaining what a long day at work they had.  It was 6:30pm and one woman said, “Thank goodness the day is over!  I got in an hour early at 8:30am and am absolutely exhausted!”  She’s exhausted for being in the office for 10 hours with an hour long lunch break.  Really?
Data point #2: For some reason, my article “How Much Do The Top Income Earners Make By Percentage?” continues to get random commenters (200 now) who turn the simple question into a political and social debate about why the rich should be paying more taxes, and the lower 50% should be paying even less taxes.  One commenter says I’m out of touch with reality when I explain that anybody who really wants to be in the Top 50% of income earners ($33,000) can do so if they wanted to.  All you have to do is work 63 hours a week at $10 to make $33,000 a year!  He says that’s ridiculous as he can’t make that working 40 hours a week (no kidding math genius), and I question what world he lives in.
Data point #3: My friend in HR said her firm is implementing overtime compensation for certain level of workers who work more than 40 hours a week.  I asked her why her firm was rewarding their workers for working hours they’re supposed to anyway?  That’s like rewarding the cable guy who comes within the allotted window!  She giggled and shrugged.  If I am the CEO, and you command overtime compensation for working more than 40 hours a week, I will do my best to refer you to my competitor to blow them up.
Data point #4: A blogger who moved to a foreign country to experience location independence, swims for hours a day, “works” about 30 hours a week and says he’s burned out. He’s upset that he’s not making more than $1,000-$2,000 a month with his infoproducts and online job opportunities.  He’s so burned out that he took a week off to re-charge his batteries.  In other words, he took a vacation from his vacation.   You’d think as a full-time blogger working 3-5 hours a day that you’d probably post every day and never burn out.  But, he only posts 2 to 3X a week and writes that he’s frustrated nobody has given him a book deal.   Come on now. $1,000-$2,000 ain’t too shabby for kicking back!
BE SERIOUS WITH ME PLEASE
Are there really people out there who only work 40 hours or less a week and complain about why they can’t get ahead or make enough money?  That’s like slacking off in school and expecting Google to hire you for big bucks.  Ain’t gonna happen.  I don’t think I’ve ever worked less than 40 hours a week when healthy.  Day job work is around 55-60 hours a week and online work is another 20 hours of fun work a week for a total of 75-80 hours.  Add on 35-42 hours a week for sleep, that still leaves 50 hours a week to spend with family, friends, and extracurricular activities. It’s not like the 75-80 hours a week spent on work is all just work either. It’s fun to interact online, go play golf with clients, get some lunch and earn some income in the process.
Perhaps society has manipulated people into believing that 40 hours a week is a normal time to spend on the job or on an endeavor.  There are two ways to get ahead: 1) Work harder and smarter than everybody else and 2) Make everybody else work less and dumber.  If you ask any super successful person how many hours a week they work I can guarantee you that it’s way more than 40 hours a week.
Do you think President Obama works only 40 hours a week?  Hell no!  He regularly works 60-70 hours a week and is on call 24-7.  Do you think Mark Zuckerberg works 40 hours a week?  He worked around the clock to build Facebook to what it is today.  Do you think doctors don’t study night and day for their MCATs to then go on single digit work hour rounds?  The answer is no, and you know that.
40 HOURS A WEEK IS A WALK IN THE PARK, SO JUST BE HAPPY

If you can work 40 hours a week and be satisfied with what you have, more power to you.  I definitely plan to work less than 40 hours a week during retirement.  However, if you are complaining about life and why you don’t have enough money and only work 40 hours a week, you need to get your head checked.
We are heading towards Socialism with the ever increasing size of our government babying us and all.  It’s not bad, and I’m all for Socialism once I’m retired.  But, the reality is that for now, we live in a very competitive society and anybody who wants to be better than average can’t work 40 hours and expect to be more than they’re not.
Readers, do you know people out there who work 40 hours a week and complain about not getting ahead?  Why don’t they just work harder, if they aren’t that smart, to get ahead?  Is it easier to complain rather than do?
Do you believe most people can make more than $33,000 in America if they wanted to?
If you are one of the frustrated ones who work only 40 hours a week, are you not aware that there are millions of people without work and would love to have your job?
Photo: Cat Sleeping On Job by Sam, 2010.
Regards,
Sam
If you enjoyed this article sign up for my RSS Feed or E-mail Feed or slack off.

Related posts:Improve Productivity An Extra Seven Hours A Week
Book Review & Giveaway: The Other 8 Hours




How To Raise The Rent, Extend A Lease And Get Rich As A Landlord


Posted: Mon, 29 Aug 2011 09:30:05 +0000





One of my favorite income streams is rental property.  I’ve bought several apartments over the past decade and plan to continue buying more.  A particularly popular rental I have is a two bedroom, two bathroom condo with parking and a view of the park.  It’s not fancy, but the location is fantastic and it has everything one needs to live a good life in one of the best areas of San Francisco.
My first tenants lived there for 5 years and actually got married after their second year.  Incidentally, my second tenants also married after two years of living there and now want to extend for a third year.   Perhaps the apartment is just blessed with love and good feng shui.  Whatever the case may be, I’m putting the two marriages in my marketing material if I ever sell!
What I do know for sure is that owning rental property is like running a business.  The goal is to maximize revenue, reduce turnover, and control expenses.  Landlords aren’t evil and aren’t always rich as some tenants might believe.  Instead, most landlords are just trying to build their own retirement portfolios with the best product offering possible.  Raising rent is nothing personal.  It’s just business between two willing parties.
RENTAL PRICE THEN VS. NOW – EVERYTHING TURNS TO GRAVY
When I first rented out the place 8 years ago, I was charging $2,150 a month.  Two years later, I raised the rent to $2,600/month where the tenants paid for three more years until they had a baby and decided to rent something larger.  When the current tenants moved in a couple years ago, I had the opportunity to raise the rent again to $2,999.  The $3,000 rental level is a relatively big hurdle in San Francisco for a young couple to pay, so I was wondering after a couple of years at $2,999 how could I tactfully go about raising the rent again without scaring them away.  After all, the economy has rebounded nicely and rents around the city have moved higher.
The goal of every landlord is to get as close to market rents as possible while having as little turnover as possible.  As I said earlier, this couple had gotten married during their second year living in my place, and I figure they have no intention of moving.  The apartment can easily accommodate a baby or two for several years as well.  I estimate my apartment’s current market rent is roughly 3,300-$3,400 now, or a full $300-$400 higher.
I’ve been a good landlord.  I respond to all their e-mail inquiries and fix whatever problem they might have within a couple of days.  Hence, I’ve built some goodwill with them.  They also locked in $2,999/month almost at the bottom of the stock markets when the Dow fell through 7,000.  As a result, they probably saved at least $100/month because of their timing.
* SoMA = South of Market St in SF
STEPS TO INCREASE RENT AND EXTEND A LEASE
1) Figure out whether or not they are happy where they are.  The happier they are, the more likely they will be willing to pay a higher rent to stay.  Moving is stressful, costly, and a complete pain.  What is their happiness worth?  If they’ve been paying on time and have had relatively little complaints, chances are they are pretty happy.
2) Go on Craigslist and figure out what a comparable property is renting for. You need to be in-line with the market.  Once your tenants have lived in your place for a while (1-2 years), they will have grown attached.  Also, if you haven’t raised your rent for 1 or 2 years, you are probably under market rents by at least 1-2% a year.  You should make your tenants feel like they are still getting a deal.  If you raise the rent to the middle of the average comparable, you’ll achieve this goal.
3) Know the maximum you are allowed to legally raise the rent.  If you have a condo (not rent controlled), you can technically raise the rent by up to 10% in San Francisco with a 30 day notice.  With a 60 day notice, you can raise your rent by up to 60% up to market value if needed.  Make sure you give your tenants ample warning.
4) Assess the financial impact of what will happen if your tenants move. Your place might sit empty for a month while you try and find equally comparable tenants.  Ask yourself whether you will be willing to go back and not raise the rent to encourage them to stay, and whether you are willing to spend the time finding someone new.
5) Understand their employment situation and their industry cycle.  If one tenant works at Facebook, and the other is an investment banker, you can be pretty confident they’ve done extremely well over the past couple of years.  Facebook’s valuation has literally doubled in the past 12 months, so a raise of 1-10% is totally digestible, especially if it’s within the range of your comparables.  Understand your tenant’s occupations and you will have terrific insight into what you can charge.
6) Make it easy for your tenants to pay you. Prepare a lease extension agreement for one year with the desired new rent and lease terms filled in.  Make it as easy as possible for your tenants to sign and return back to you.  That includes e-mailing them a copy and having them mail it in with their next rent check, or faxing back the document with their signature.  The easier you allow your tenants to sign a transaction, the more likely they will.
7) Offer your tenants proof that they are getting a good deal.  If your tenants are expressing some doubts, show them comparable apartments that are much more expensive to make them realize what a reasonable deal they have.  Make them feel special by reminding them of your promptness in communication.  Now is the time to utilize your goodwill.
8) Set their minds at easy regarding future rental increases.  Mention that you will probably not raise the rent next year, to give them comfort in the fact that they are paying more rent this year.  In the contract, you can highlight that by signing an extension, they are protected from having to move out in 30 days notice if you the owner decide to sell the place.  Whether you end up raising the rent again in a year is a different matter.  But for now, you have no intention to.
CASH FLOW IS KING, BUT HOW DOES $1,200,000 IN EXTRA WEALTH SOUND?
Eight years ago, the annual rent for this particular property was $25,800 a year at $2,150 a month.  With the 10-year risk-free rate at roughly 4.5%, the property was worth about $573,000 ($25,800 / 0.045), ignoring any risk premium required for maintaining the property.  In other words, if one didn’t have any mortgage or expenses, the property is equivalent to $573,000 in the bank earning $25,800 risk free.  Nothing is risk free of course, and there will always be expenses such as property tax and insurance, but stay with me as I show you how things work.
At $3,100 a month, the annual income is $37,200.  Assume that the 10-year risk-free rate is still at 4.5%, the property is now worth $826,666 ($37,200 / 0.045).  Pretty nice to increase your assets value by $253,666 thanks to rent increases over the years right?
Now get this, thanks to massive quantitative easing (printing money) by the Federal Reserve, and a sluggish economy, the 10-year yield has now plummeted to 2.1% as of 8/28/11 vs. 4.5% seven years ago.  The system is awash with liquidity.  Now take $37,200 in annual rental income and divide by 2.1% and the property now is worth $1,771,428!  In other words, it takes $1,771,428 cash in the bank at a 2.1% risk free rate to earn $37,200 a year in income.
Take a bit of time to really soak this information in.  As a landlord generating $37,200 in annual income, your property has appreciated by  $1,198,428 and you didn’t have to do anything except keep happy tenants and be a good landlord!  Of course nothing is really risk free, even the 10-year US Treasury bonds you are buying.
If inflation starts coming back, your rental property by definition inflates since it is a real asset.  In an inflationary environment, you can raise the rent more, and you are now valuing your property not as a risk free income return, but as a rapidly appreciating asset which you should consider selling at some point.
Your property is only worth what someone is willing to pay for it.  And if you are a rental property buyer you should command at least a 1% premium over risk free, which would value the $37,200 annual income property at $1,200,000 ($37,200 / 0.031) at most.  However, if you understand the analysis above, you will realize that rental properties have sky rocketed in value thanks to the economy ironically, and the Federal Reserve.
DELICATE DOES IT
I actually don’t enjoy raising the rent on my tenants.  I feel guilty, especially as the monthly mortgage has gone down about 23% since the refinance a year ago and 32% since first purchase.  However, inflation affects us all, and that means the variable costs such as maintenance, building materials, and labor go up which needs to be covered by rent increases.  But, if you’re finding that the market has moved higher, by all means consider raising the rent on your existing tenant.  It’s your property, which should be treated as a business.
My tenants signed a one year extension at a new rental agreement price of $3,100.  That’s a 3.3% increase, which in the grand scheme of things is not much given how far the economy has come from just two years ago.  I should raise the rent to $3,300-$3,400, but I just feel too guilty as they are great tenants.  Despite the small increase, when you consistently increase the rent and lower your mortgage payments, the spread get huge over time.  My ultimate goal is to raise the rent to $3,500 by 2015 in minor 3-4% annual increments and have a cash flow generating machine with no debt.
Being a landlord is not that difficult if you have a good property which attracts good tenants.  The most important thing is to spend a thorough amount of time screening your prospective tenants before allowing them to sign the lease.  A rule I hold steadfast on is that a tenant must earn at least 45X the monthly rent as annual income.  That’s $135,000+ in this case.  Bank assets should also show at least 10X monthly rent in liquid net worth.
So there you have it.  Hopefully the tips above will help you maximize your rental income and extend your lease!  Know that as interest rates have declined, your rental property has rocketed in value as well!  If all that’s not enough, at the very least you’ve paid off years worth of principal.  Seriously consider rental property as part of your retirement portfolio, because at the end of your mortgage, you will own a real asset free and clear.  And what’s better than living rent free where nobody can ever kick you out and tell you what to do?  Priceless.
Landlords, any other tips you have for raising rent and ensuring you have the best return on your property?
How much has your rental property increased using the current 10-year risk free rate vs. when you purchased it?
Do you know of any easier ways to take advantage of the Fed and increase your wealth without having to do much at all?
Best,
Sam
If you enjoyed this article and feel you just got a little smarter, please sign up for my RSS Feed or E-mail Feed.
 

Related posts:Why Rental Property Is A Powerful Asset Class
Note To Self: Buy More Rental Property!




Poker Is Such a Rush Until You Lose All Your Money


Posted: Sat, 27 Aug 2011 11:00:01 +0000





For the first time in a while, I attended our regular Friday home game last night from 9pm to 2:30am.  I used to love going all the time until I started this site actually.  Now, the thrill of writing and interacting has taken over.  Furthermore, I realize how hard it is to make a decent buck online.  To lose a couple hundred in one hand when you play well, yet get runner runnered is a horrible feeling!
No longer are my poker outcomes compared to my normal salary.  They are now compared to my online income which makes things that much more painful when I lose since my online income is so much smaller.  In fact, I use my online income as the barometer whenever I’m thinking of spending frivolously to help keep me in check.
A lot of us poker players like to justify our habits by saying that poker isn’t gambling and that it’s skill.  Although I believe poker is 60% skill, that still leaves 40% left to chance.  Would you bet someone $500,000 if you had a 60% chance of winning and a 40% chance of having your hand chopped off?  I wouldn’t, but some would!
THE ADDICTION RETURNS TEMPORARILY
I bought in for $200 among a sea of sharks with average stacks of some $$400 high.  Everybody loves to make fun of me when I play because I’m known as the tight one.  “Uh oh, Sam is in?  Watch out for those pocket Aces!” they would chide.  “Yes, guys, I only play pocket Aces, so watch out!” is always my retort.  I have an absolute allergic reaction to losing money because I pretend I’m a minimum wage blogger trying to survive in this hard, cruel world.
After being down about $35 bucks for most of the night, I had finally won a couple hands than put me in the black by $90 at 1am.  $90 divided by $200 is a 45% return I reasoned, and it was time for me to go.  To put things in perspective, I was still the smallest chip stack with $290 as now people averaged $700 as re-buys built the action.  But, my buddies wouldn’t let me leave because the rule of course is that you can only leave early when you go broke, or else you have to stay to the bitter end.  Oh yeah, now I remember the other reason why I’ve stopped playing!
The Last Hand
Up 45% and the second to the last hand of the night I’m dealt pocket Queens.  My heart starts racing, because my goal is to just limp or fold until the clock struck 2am. After someone raised pre-flop to $6 with 3 callers, it was my turn to decide.  There’s no way I’m playing 4 way with Queens against these degenerates so I pop the bet by 7X to $40.  Call, call, call!  Crap, they really do love to gamble.  The flop comes 10, 7, 3 and everyone checks around to me.  Of course I bet the pot, a crisp $100 bill gets thrown in the middle, leaving me with only half my chips remaining.  Everyone folds except for the animal to my left.
By this time I’m thinking shitake mushroom, I’ve got $140 committed to the pot and there’s no escaping now.  Why didn’t I quit while I was ahead?  I should have just done something Herculean and limped in and not controlled the action by raising pre-flop.  My pocket queens could be losing to two pair, trips, pocket Kings, or pocket Aces.  When the 4th card hit, a seemingly harmless 5 came out.  I checked.  After a brief moment, where I was hoping my opponent would also check, but he bet another $140!  My heart sank.  Fine, whatever, I’m pot committed so I shoved the rest of my chips in.  Going from +$90 to down $200 sucks, and I promised myself during the show down that I wouldn’t return for another 6 months.
When I showed him my pocket Queens, he sat stunned.  I think may have begun to cry.  He mucked his cards and stared at the remaining $50 left in chips, cashed out, and walked away.  I took him for $290 on just one hand to double up to over $600 and that addicting feeling and thrill was back!  “Nobody pushes me around,” I start thinking in my head.  I feel invincible on the inside, like I belong with the sea of sharks dictating the action.  On the outside, I just tell everybody I got lucky, thanked them for playing, and until we see again.
AFRAID OF THE RUSH
There’s no doubt that in those last tense moments a wave of exhilaration came over me.  I was afraid and excited at the same time, longing for every little posturing and eye twitch to reveal itself.  For that moment, I was a poker junkie again, ready to quit my online endeavors and turn pro.  Of course, that is preposterous thinking, but it was fun while it lasted.
I’m back to reality now, sitting in front of my computer typing away.  I think about how each $200 bet is like working for several hours online trying to get an advertiser.  The rush of gambling is intensely pleasurable no doubt about it, but it’s not for me.  I don’t like the person I become when I lose as I’ve lost plenty of big hands before.  No, I probably won’t be returning to the Friday night home game for a while.  I’m too afraid of what the rush will do to me.
Readers, have any of you ever been hooked on poker or gambling in general?  Have you ever come to a moment where you realize you’re at the edge of the cliff, and one more step and you could lose it all?
Money saving tip: Really start comparing gambling to some of your side income endeavors to put things in perspective.  If it takes you 10 hours of work to make $100, you might think thrice before placing a bet.  It’s easy to just think of your money as chips and frivolously bet it all away.  Have a limit of how much you can lose, and once you hit that limit, walk away.  Leave that ATM card at home and don’t borrow money from friends.  Live to fight another day.
Regards,
Sam @ Financial Samurai – “Slicing Through Money’s Mysteries”

Related posts:Online Poker Crackdown Is Good News
Poker is Just for Fun – Don’t Rely On It For Extra Income




What Is Piercing The Corporate Veil?


Posted: Thu, 25 Aug 2011 10:00:30 +0000





When you incorporate a business, it’s like you have created a person out of thin air. That business is considered a separate legal entity from the shareholders who own the business. In the case of a small business, it’s usually one or two business partners. In the eyes of the government, a business is separated from the owners who run that business. This is different from a sole proprietorship, where you and the business are one and the same. There is no legal separation in a sole proprietorship.
It is not only legally separate, but also taxed separate. At the end of the year, you must also file taxes for personally, but also your business. When you incorporate your business, you’ll get what’s called an Employer Identification Number (EIN) number. This EIN number is similar to your Social Security number. It is what identifies you company with the IRS. So if any customer asks for a 1099 form, you would given them your EIN number, instead of your Social Security.
This separate legal entity is great. If it did not exist, any issues related to your company would be directly the owner’s responsibility. But all is not perfect, since someone uneducated about owning a business might mix their personal, and business transactions. This is a big no no! Intermingling the two can lead to legal, and tax disasters. This is what is known as “piercing the corporate veil”.
PIERCING THE CORPORATE VEIL WITHOUT EVEN KNOWING IT 
Many small business owners get tripped up, and pierce the corporate veil without even knowing it. What do I mean by this? If you created a C Corp, S Corp or LLC; it means you should never mix your personal transactions within your business. You should think of your business as if it wasn’t owned by you. When working for someone else, you must get approval of business expenses.
So anything you purchase for the business should be done via corporate credit cards, a company check or at minimum expensed via an expense report. With an expense report, you then cut a check within the company to pay for those expenses. When paying the business partners, it should be a business check that’s paid out to you personally. This is no different when working for someone else. You’ll get a salary just like when working for an employer.
You should not be writing checks from within your company to pay for personal expenses. This means not paying your home mortgage, groceries, or cable bill. Unless of course these are legitimate expenses within your business. When in doubt of what’s considered legal expenses, ask your accountant. If you don’t have an accountant, yet own a business, I suggest that’s the first advisor you get.
Not only can an accountant assist with the complex taxes, but they will help advise you on some of the legal issues. If in doubt pay for any item personally. You can always expense to your business later.
When owning a business you don’t have to become an expert in accounting and tax law, but you should at least understand the basics.
If you keep your personal and business expenses separated, it will protect you from legal trouble. If you pierce the corporate veil too much, a judge may determine you personally liable for business transactions. This is not to say you should purposely fraud partners, vendors or customers. This can also pierce the veil and there are many other examples in which this could happen.
Bottom line: If you have a business generating any significant income, and serious about growing the business you should incorporate. While the initial costs, reoccurring costs and overhead is not minor it will save you many legal hassles in the future, with also tax advantages to boot!
This has been a guest post by Investor Junkie. He’s been an entrepreneur for over 13 years. On his blog he talks about alternative investments, and has resources for small business owners.
FURTHER THOUGHTS AND QUESTIONS FOR ALL OF YOU
I asked Investor Junkie to share his thoughts on this subject because he’s an entrepreneur and I’ve seen so many companies get in trouble with using a company’s funds for their own personal use.  There are also many of us online entrepreneurs who might be tempted to use company funds to buy a car they don’t need, go on a vacation that’s irrelevant to the business and so forth.  There’s such a gray area and I can see the temptation!
For example, I’m going on a European cruise this fall.  Since I will be meeting up with a couple potential clients for the Yakezie Network, is my round-trip plane ticket fully expensable?  What about at least one hotel night stay a the 4 Seasons in Barcelona?  And how about my entire cruise itself if I so happen to meet more customers on the ship?
One online friend earns probably north of $30,000 a month from his site, but takes only a $5,000 a month income so he doesn’t have to pay payroll taxes of 12.4% on the remaining $25,000 a month.  That’s $37,200 in payroll taxes saved on $300,000 a year in annual income that flows to retained earnings on the corporate balance sheet.  The problem is, with only a $60,000 a year income, it’s going to be difficult getting more than a $200,000 a mortgage, which doesn’t buy very much house where he lives.  Does he buy a house using his company’s funds and pierce the corporate veil?  After all, it is his company.
Can one load up their company with loss making assets such as an income property to offset profits?  Since a corporation is a separate entity, is it considered piercing the corporate veil if a relative or parent is hired to pay for services rendered?
Let’s get this discussion going entrepreneurs and business folk alike!
Thanks, Sam

Related posts:Entrepreneurship: Don’t Trade A Boss For Something Worse
The Importance Of A Permanent Tax Policy




Earthquake Disaster In Virginia Has People Fleeing And Californians Wondering “Huh?”


Posted: Wed, 24 Aug 2011 09:00:46 +0000





It’s not funny to joke about earthquakes, especially since we never know when one will hit.  Yes, California always get a bad rap and the big one will come eventually.  However, you got to admit there have been some peculiarities about a 5.9 magnitude earthquake that caused people all along the eastern seaboard to run out of their buildings and panic.
For goodness sakes, you live on the East Coast, where it’s hot and muggy as hell during the summer, and cold as Antarctica during the winter.  If you guys can stand to suffer for 10 months out of the year, what’s a little shake and bake?  Nothing at all!
Living on the East Coast is like choosing the red door which has a hairy masochist in a gimp suit waiting to smash your pinky finger with a sledgehammer everyday.  Just when the bleeding starts to coagulate, you get another bash!  Since it’s a free country, you could easily choose to walk through the West Coast blue door where there lies a super model waiting to give you a rub down every afternoon.  Haven’t you seen Katy Perry’s California Girls video where everybody is all sexy with lollipops?  Because of the freedom of choice, I admire my brothers and sisters on the East Coast so much for their strength!  After 10 years there, I had to get out and now I’m a soft mound of dough relaxing out West.
We’ve had this debate before about East Coast vs. West Coast, and the conclusion is hands down that the West Coast provides a far superior quality of life than the East Coast.  Don’t believe me?  Click on both articles and read the 200 comments to see the light! The only people to object to this tautology are those who’ve never spent more than a month living on the West Coast, or who have never even been to the West Coast in the first place!
As the optimist that I am, the good thing about the Virginia earthquake is that East Coasters will stop making fun of those who live in California.  It’s like you guys think we have devastating earthquakes everyday or something.  The amount of hurricanes and tornadoes that rip through the East Coast every year causes multiple times more damage than the average blue moon earthquake here.
The other great thing about living on the East Coast is that things can’t get much worse.  Wherever you go travel or decide to retire, life will be that much better!  For those who live in Hawaii or California, it’s going to be a little rough retiring elsewhere. That’s why we never leave.  However, on the upside, think about how much money you’ll save on housing and watermelons!
So let us all pray that the big one never hits either of our coasts and come to the acceptance that the West Coast is the best coast.   Glad everyone is OK and if you’re from the East Coast, I’m just playing with you.  The two months of the year in Fall really are spectacular!  Stay safe America!
Readers, where were you when the Big Virginia quake hit? I was getting a massage from my super model masseuse when I got a Tweet notification of mass pandemonium of flight cancellations and building evacuations.
Best,
Sam
Here’s a helpful post on how to and what to prepare for a disaster at your home and office.

Related posts:East Coast Living – Is It Really That Bad?
West Coast Living – Yes It Really Is That Much Better!




Get A College Degree It Will Set You Free


Posted: Tue, 23 Aug 2011 09:08:31 +0000





Two realizations have come to us recently: 1) There is a big time disconnect between reported unemployment of 9%, and the 1-2% unemployment levels among the tens of thousands of people we know in person and who read this site and 2) Only ~30-35% of Americans over 25 have their associate’s and/or college degrees.  No wonder there is such a big disconnect!
I grew up in an environment where if I didn’t study in high school, I was heavily disciplined for my lack of effort.  It became very clear to me at 14 that if I slacked off in high school, I was screwed because grades averaged over four years for college admissions to see.  It was embedded in my brain that college was the only way to get a job and make it on my own.  We know this is not as true now, thanks to the internet and the relative ease to reach many more customers.  But, back then, that was all I knew and I venture to guess it was similar for many of you too.
Never once did I consider not going to college or dropping out.  Failure was not an option, partly because I didn’t want to return to McDonald’s making egg McMuffins at 6:30am, and face a manager who made us staff feel like shit everyday.  We’d rebel by eating all the apple pies we could and slip an extra burger into friendly customer’s bags.  Even then, $3.15 an hour felt like crappy pay.  The other reason why I wanted to do well was because I wanted to be rich!
BASHING A COLLEGE EDUCATION IS LIKE BASHING IN YOUR OWN BRAINS
It’s become trendy to bash college degrees now that unemployment is so high.  Critics highlight the low return on investment of college as tuition skyrockets.  Indeed, tuition costs are out of control.  However, nobody said you have to go to XYZ private school and do poorly.  There are plenty of public schools that educate just as well at 1/4th the price.  And, if you plan to spend $50,000 a year on private school, you might as well go to Harvard than Boston University don’t you think?!
Growing up, I had no other option.  It was either go to college or die.  As I talked to more and more people about college, they told me something interesting.  They believe that many people actually are too lazy to put in the 4 years to study and graduate!  I always thought that those who didn’t go to college were either geniuses or lacked the financial means.  Who wouldn’t want to party it up with no parental supervision and learn something along the way?  I never once considered that laziness was a reason.  Is laziness really a reason?  I find it hard to believe.
Critics of college are missing the point.  If you don’t go to college, you are structurally disadvantaged from earning a higher wage or holding on to your job.  When downturns happen, companies whack the lowest person on the totem pole first.  Companies also become extremely picky because those with doctorate degrees are vying for masters degrees jobs.  Masters degrees holders are vying for bachelors degrees jobs.  And bachelors degrees holders are applying at Starbucks and McDonald’s!  So, what the hell is a high school degree holder going to do? Shine shoes on the street?  How is s/he going to compete with the bachelors degree candidate?  It’s brutally difficult!
Solution to the education bubble
Of course there comes a point where you are over-educated, and you pay too much and screw yourself in the process if the economy is bad.  So be careful on the other end as well.  Sure, there is an education bubble for those who go to ridiculously expensive schools who plan to enter an occupation that doesn’t provide a good ROI.  The easiest way to pop the education bubble is to simply enforce higher lending standards on students.
Let’s say only students who get a B+ average or better are allowed to get a college loan at the cheapest rate.  The worse you do, the higher your rate.  If you are averaging D’s, then no loan for you!  I can envision a rate chart like this: 2% interest for A average, 4% interest for B average, 10% interest for C average, and no loans for anything worse.  This is how we evaluate potential mortgage borrowers via their credit scores, why not do the same thing with grades?  No brainer in my opinion.
EDUCATION GUARANTEES OPPORTUNITY, NOT SUCCESS
In bull markets, companies need warm bodies because there’s so much demand for their products.  Companies can’t risk pissing off their clients, and know that it’s game time to seize their opportunity while things are good and maximize profits.  In downturns, variable costs i.e. you and me are the first to go.  A company isn’t going to let go of their star producer.  They are going to get rid of their worst producers.
A college degree doesn’t guarantee you anything.  What it does do is put you 70% ahead of everybody else without one!  If you are to put your life savings on someone to succeed, you would bet on the person with a college degree over one with only a high school degree 10 times out of 10 to get and retain a job.  Yes, there are always exceptions, and I can find an exception to your exception too, so the point is mute.
For those of us with college degrees, let us realize we are in the massive minority.  High school only graduates outnumber us 3 to 1.  As a result, we need to know that there are two different worlds out there.  For those without college degrees, consider getting a college degree, even if it’s just at a community college.  The statistics don’t lie.  If the unemployment rate of college educated folks is around 2%, and we make up 30% of the population, then the unemployment rate for the rest hovers around 14%-16% to average 9% national unemployment!
The world is damn competitive, so bear down, grit your teeth, and get that degree!  And if you’ve got an bachelor’s degree, you might as well get a master’s degree if you’ve got time!
Readers, is laziness really a reason as to why some people don’t go to college?  If all the statistics say that getting a college degree, no matter from where, helps you make more and stay employed longer in your life time, why don’t more people get college degrees than just 30%?  Why not get a Master’s degree?

Isn’t the easiest way to deflate the education bubble is by tightening lending standards by banks?  If you can’t borrow for college, you can’t pay their asking prices and prices fall as a result!
Regards,
Sam
If you enjoyed this article, please sign up for my RSS Feed or E-mail Feed to keep in touch.

Related posts:An Unemployment Epidemic For College Graduates
Go To Grad School, Get Rich Or Die Trying






FeedBurner delivers the world's subscriptions wherever they need to go. Publish a feed for text or podcasting? 
You should try FeedBurner today.


