NEW WORLD ORDER NEWS - HomeHomeBRUCE'S HEALTHY COFFEESURVIVAL911 INFOVACCINE DANGERSPOLICE BRUTALITYCULT CONNECTIONSILLEGAL IMMIGRATIONNEW WORLD ORDER NEWSTHE NEWS FOX FORGETSHomeBzerbel1@gmail.com


"AND YOU SHALL CRY OUT IN THAT DAY BECAUSE OF THE  KING THAT YOU HAVE CHOSEN FOR YOURSELVES AND THE LORD WILL NOT HEAR YOU IN 
THAT DAY"                           1ST SAMUEL 8: 18















-------------------------
POSTED SEPTEMBER 2, 2011

NO JOB? OBAMA TO MAKE SPEECH

I'm sorry. It should have read "Obama To Read Speech". Everyone knows Emperor Obama doesn't really make speeches. He reads the words written for him by others. And what happened to the recovery? Remember back in June of 2009 when we were told by our government masters that the recession officially ended. That's what we get when we give any credence whatsoever to government spokesmen.

The article below covers the official statistics regarding job creation. Here it is. There were none created. End of story. Of course whatever statistics come from the government are highly prejudiced in order to make them look good, so it's probably worse. Then they talk of a "double dip". Well, it can't be that, since we haven't come out of the first "dip".

Folks, we have listened to their contrived lies since the 1970's when the official policy of exporting jobs overseas began. Since then we've had GATT, NAFTA and the WTO. Just to make things worse, there are a ton of other treaties (most made in secret) which are designed to send even more jobs overseas. This is no accident. This is deliberate. I don't know how many different ways one becomes traitorous, but deliberately destroying the economy has to rank way up there. So, don't forget to listen to his speech.

Bruce                      New World Order News


Friday, September 2, 2011

US creates no jobs in August
 






A job seeker fills out an employment application at
            an outdoor job fair in Los Angeles this week
            © AFP Robyn Beck



AFP

WASHINGTON (AFP) - The struggling US economy added no jobs in August  after 10 months of gains, amid rising fears of recession and political  turmoil over the government's debt and deficit, official data showed  Friday. 

Employment in the private sector, which has been the main engine for job  growth as revenue-strapped governments shed workers, "changed little"  in most major industries, the Labor Department said.

The total of 17,000 private-sector jobs added were offset by 17,000 shed by government.

The Labor Department said the unemployment rate  remained unchanged at 9.1 percent from July. It was the 28th month the  jobless rate has been at 9.0 percent and above, except for two.

The number of unemployed people was essentially unchanged, at 14 million.

The jobs data for August were the worst since September 2010, when the  economy destroyed more than twice the number of jobs it created.
 

The report comes amid political gridlock in Washington, as President  Barack Obama's Democrats and their Republican foes battle over how to  achieve long-term deficit reduction.

It also comes ahead of Obama's speech to a joint session of Congress  next Thursday, in which he will lay out a plan to create jobs and  stimulate the moribund economy, whose growth fell below one percent in  the first half of the year.

After a series of weak economic data, analysts had lowered their  expectations for August nonfarm job growth. The average estimate was for  a net 70,000 payrolls, with the jobless rate holding steady.

The department sharply lowered its July reading for payrolls, to 85,000, from an initial estimate of 117,000.

A monthly job growth pace of 100,000 is seen as necessary to support a  steady unemployment rate, according to Briefing.com economists.

Still adding jobs was the health-care sector, by 30,000, mining and professional and business services.

A decline in information employment reflected a strike in the  telecommmunications industry, the department said, referring to a  two-week strike against Verizon Communications by about 45,000  employees.

Governments continued to shed jobs, even after accounting for about  22,000 workers from a partial state government shutdown in Minnesota,  the department said.

Since employment peaked in September 2008, local governments have shed 550,000 jobs.



POSTED SEPTEMBER 1, 2011

WHY IS AMERICA GETTING SICKER?

Below is an article by Ben Fuchs. Ben is a pharmacist and has been studying the effects of medication and vaccines on the human body. He has a show on GCN every weekday.

The article comments on the marvels of our immune system. A little more than 100 years ago, medical schools were changing the curriculum to emphasize disease treatment through medication rather than the strengthening of the immune system. Most know that many diseases exist in our bodies without actually gaining control. That is because the immune system attacks and destroys virus', bacteria and other intruders. Medications almost never cure, but mask the symptoms of disease. Side effects are often worse than the original disease.

In 2011 America spends more money per capita on health care than any other nation, yet we are 50th in wellness. Lack of exercise, poor eating habits, vaccines and over medication have all contributed to the "sickening" of our population. A trip to the average nursing home shows the results of today's health care system. Millions of elderly are now housed in these medical gulags with no hope of release. Degenerating health, removal of all dignity and money and then death, is ultimate result. Rather than follow this physician recommended path, I have decided to move in a different direction. No vaccines-- no medication-- daily exercise --- heavy nutrition --- no fluoride -- minimal crap to eat -- no microwaves and no visits to the doctor unless I really, really need it. So far, so good. I'll be 64 in January.

Bruce                   New World Order News


Our Immune System: Nature’s Perfect Machine


Ben Fuchs
    Infowars.com
    April 7, 2011


The  human immune system is an amazing, complex, intricate biological   framework of structures and processes that is exquisitely designed to   protect the body from a wide variety of pathological agents.  It is   composed of countless cellular and subcellular mechanisms that gives it   an intelligence and flexibility that is nothing short of miraculous.  B   cells and T cells, and Natural Killer cells (that’s really what  they’re  called!) and immunoglobulins  all coordinated and synchronized and astoundingly effective, in most   cases the immune system is all that stands between us and potential   disaster caused by bacterial, viral and environmental invasion.  Without   an immune system you would be dead in hours.
That’s why, in the world of toxic pharmaceutical drugs, among the   worst, are drugs that suppress the immune system. The medical community   loves these drugs as many of the health challenges patients face today   involve excessive immune activity, misdirected immune action or   inflammation which can be regarded as the obvious manifestations of the   immune system.  Prednisone, and its derivatives, has long been a   mainstay of treatment for immune based disease states.  Many drugs for   asthma and rheumatoid arthritis are likewise immune suppressants.  And   just last week, a study appeared in the journal Annals of the Rheumatic Diseases that suggested that the immunosuppressant anti-cancer drug Gleevec (imatinib) showed promise for treating the autoimmune disease of the connective tissue called scleroderma.
Folks, please understand: suppression of the immune system is serious   business.  It’s playing with biochemical fire.  The immune system is   nature’s way of protecting the body from assault and knocking it out in   the name of good health is flat out bad medicine.  The appropriate   response to an overactive immune system is NOT to shut it down!   The   correct response is to try to figure out why it’s overactive.   If your   baby is crying and you put duct tape on his mouth, you may not hear him   crying any more, but you aren’t taking very good care of your baby.    Likewise, a hyperactive immune system that is showing up as scleroderma   or lupus or rheumatoid arthritis can be shut down, but you aren’t doing   your body (baby) any favors.



POSTED AUGUST 31, 2011

AND THE FAIRY TALE CONTINUES

In 10 days our government masters along with their willing media whore accomplices will celebrate the impossible explanation of the events of September 11, 2001. Never mind the fact that so many of their conclusions are physically impossible, they just continue to chirp the stories.

The article below covers many of these impossibilities. There are also references to the many well known people who have publicly challenged the government conclusions, but no matter. In discussions with hundreds of individuals over the years, 2 things come to the forefront. The first is most will literally believe anything, as long as the mainstream news says it's so. The second is these same individuals have done almost no research over the past 10 years concerning the events of 911.

In my postings I have covered a wide variety of issues. Most involve evil people taking positions of power and using those positions to accumulate more power and money. ALL of these issues could be dealt with if there were millions who became informed and openly challenged evil. It only takes ambition and courage. It's easy, but it's hard. If, after all the videos, interviews, books, and documents exposing the fraud of the official 911 report don't motivate millions, then the nation is indeed, lost. Since I live here and all of my family is here, I pray I'm wrong.

Bruce                New World Order News


Establishment Prepares 9/11 Official Story Onslaught
 
The system is still in a blind panic over the flimsy credibility of the  government-approved fable
Paul Joseph Watson
Infowars.com
Wednesday, August 31, 2011

One look at your TV guide over the next 10 days  will tell you  everything you need to know about how petrified the establishment  is  over the flimsy credibility of the official 9/11 fable.
Naturally, the 10-year anniversary of the attacks  would be expected  to merit a deluge of media coverage, but what sticks out is  the  overbearing emphasis on countering so-called “conspiracy theories” about  the  events of that day, or in other words, reinforcing the official  “conspiracy  theory” that 19 poorly trained Arab hijackers were able to  cripple America’s air  defenses and make three giant steel-framed  structures crumble to the ground at  near free fall speed.
The BBC couldn’t even wait until the month of  September itself to  air their latest 9/11 truth hit piece earlier this week, and  another is  planned for next weekend. The damage done by the Building 7 fiasco,   where BBC reporter Jane Standley is seen reporting the collapse of WTC 7  before  it happens, a clip seen by  millions, prompted the public broadcaster to launch a sustained dogmatic  assault on anyone who dared question either 9/11 or 7/7.
Unfortunately for the BBC, the endless stream of  smear attacks  against so-called “conspiracy theorists” have largely backfired.  Doctor  Rory Ridley-Duff of Sheffield Hallam University conducted a study  of the  BBC’s “Conspiracy Files” documentary on 7/7 in comparison with  the “conspiracy”  documentary 7/7 Ripple Effect. His conclusion – the  “conspiracy” documentary was  more “coherent with available evidence”.
But conspiracy hit pieces are not about evidence,  they’re about  strawman attacks, character assassination, and emotional  manipulation.  This only works as a tool of persuasion on people who have little  or no  capacity for critical thinking, or on those who are already fully  invested  in a belief system. Such individuals are of no consequence in  the “infowar,” as  Hillary  Clinton herself termed it,  that continues to be won by the “conspiracy  theorists” no matter how  many hit pieces are produced and endlessly repeated by  television  networks that have lost a great deal of credibility.
Despite the establishment backlash, polls  have consistently shown  that the majority of people suspect a cover-up  regarding 9/11, which  is not surprising given the fact that the majority of 9/11   Commissioners tasked with investigating the events by the U.S.  government itself  also believe the same thing.
For those who doubt the impact left by the legacy  of the 9/11 truth  movement, just flip through your cable listings for the next  week or  two for a visual record of how desperate the establishment is to   reinforce its official 9/11 fable.
What are they so scared of? The fact that the  public may entertain  the subject long enough to discover for themselves the fact  that  countless highly credible people question the official 9/11 story and  have  gone on record to express such doubts.
———————————————————-
Highly Credible People Question 9/11
The following people question the government’s version of  9/11, or  the government’s openness in providing information about the September   11 attacks.
9/11 COMMISSIONERS
The co-chairs of the 9/11 Commission (Thomas Keane and Lee  Hamilton) said that the CIA (and likely the White House) “obstructed our investigation”.
The co-chairs of the 9/11 Commission also said that the  9/11 Commissioners knew that military officials misrepresented  the  facts to the Commission, and the Commission considered recommending  criminal  charges for such false statements, yet didn’t bother to tell the American  people (free subscription required).
Indeed, the co-chairs of the Commission now admit that the Commission largely operated based upon political  considerations.
9/11 Commission co-chair Lee Hamilton says “I  don’t believe for a minute we got everything right”, that the   Commission was set up to fail, that people should keep asking questions  about  9/11, that the 9/11 debate should continue, and that the 9/11  Commission report  was only “the first draft” of history.
9/11 Commissioner Bob Kerrey said that “There  are ample reasons to suspect that there may be some  alternative to  what we outlined in our version . . . We didn’t have access . . .  .”
9/11 Commissioner Timothy Roemer said “We were extremely frustrated with the false statements we were  getting”
Former 9/11 Commissioner Max Cleland resigned from the  Commission, stating: “It is a national scandal”; “This investigation is now compromised”; and “One  of these days we will have to get the full story because the  9-11  issue is so important to America. But this White House wants to cover it   up”.
9/11 Commissioner John Lehman said that “We  purposely put together a staff that had – in a way – conflicts of  interest“.
The Senior Counsel to the 9/11 Commission (John Farmer) who  led the 9/11 staff’s inquiry, said “I  was shocked at how different the truth was from the way it was   described …. The tapes told a radically different story from what had  been told  to us and the public for two years…. This is not spin. This  is not  true.”
CONGRESS
According to the Co-Chair of the Congressional Inquiry into  9/11 and  former Head of the Senate Intelligence Committee, Bob Graham, a  U.S.  government informant was the landlord to two of the hijackers for  over a year  (but the White House refused to let the 9/11 inquiry  interview him).
Current U.S. Senator (Patrick Leahy) states “The  two questions that the congress will not ask . . . is why did  9/11  happen on George Bush’s watch when he had clear warnings that it was  going  to happen? Why did they allow it to happen?”
Current Republican Congressman (Ron Paul) calls for a new 9/11  investigation and states that “we see the  [9/11] investigations that have been done so far as more or less cover-up and no  real explanation of what went on”
Current Democratic Congressman (Dennis Kucinich) hints that we aren’t  being told the truth about 9/11
Former Democratic Senator (Mike Gravel) states that he supports a new 9/11 investigation and that we don’t know the  truth about 9/11
Former Republican Senator (Lincoln Chaffee) endorses a new 9/11  investigation
Former U.S. Democratic Congressman (Dan Hamburg) says that the  U.S. government “assisted” in the 9/11 attacks, stating that “I think there was  a lot of help from the inside”
Former U.S. Republican Congressman and senior member of the  House  Armed Services Committee, and who served six years as the Chairman of  the  Military Research and Development Subcommittee (Curt Weldon) has  shown that the  U.S. tracked hijackers before 9/11, is open to hearing  information about explosives in the Twin Towers, and is open to the possibility  that 9/11 was an inside job
MILITARY LEADERS
Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense under President Ronald  Reagan (Col. Ronald D. Ray) said that the official story of 9/11 is “the dog that doesn’t hunt” (bio)
Director of the U.S. “Star Wars” space defense program in  both  Republican and Democratic administrations, who was a senior air force   colonel who flew 101 combat missions (Col. Robert Bowman) stated that 9/11 was an  inside job. He also said:

“If  our  government had merely [done] nothing, and I say that as an old  interceptor  pilot-I know the drill, I know what it takes, I know how  long it takes, I know  what the procedures are, I know what they were,  and I know what they’ve changed  them to-if our government had merely  done nothing, and allowed normal procedures  to happen on that morning  of 9/11, the Twin Towers would still be standing and  thousands of dead  Americans would still be alive. [T]hat is  treason!“

U.S. Army Air Defense Officer and NORAD Tac Director,  decorated with  the Purple Heart, the Bronze Star and the Soldiers Medal (Capt.  Daniel  Davis) stated:

“there  is no way that an aircraft . . . would not be intercepted  when they  deviate from their flight plan, turn off their transponders, or stop   communication with Air Traffic Control … Attempts to obscure facts by  calling  them a ‘conspiracy Theory’ does not change the truth. It seems,  ‘Something is  rotten in the State.’ “

President of the U.S. Air Force Accident Investigation Board,  who  also served as Pentagon Weapons Requirement Officer and as a member of  the  Pentagon’s Quadrennial Defense Review, and who was awarded  Distinguished Flying  Crosses for Heroism, four Air Medals, four  Meritorious Service Medals, and nine  Aerial Achievement Medals (Lt.  Col. Jeff Latas) is a member of a group which doubts the  government’s version of 9/11
U.S. General, Commanding General of U.S. European Command and   Supreme Allied Commander Europe, decorated with the Bronze Star, Silver  Star,  and Purple Heart (General Wesley Clark) said “We’ve  never finished  the investigation of 9/11 and whether the  administration actually misused the  intelligence information it had.  The evidence seems pretty clear to me. I’ve  seen that for a long time.”
Air Force Colonel and key Pentagon official (Lt. Colonel  Karen Kwiatkowski) finds various aspects of 9/11 suspicious
Lieutenant colonel, 24-year Air Force career, Vice Chancellor  for  Student Affairs at the Defense Language Institute (Lt. Colonel Steve  Butler)  said “Of  course Bush knew about the impending attacks on America. He  did  nothing to warn the American people because he needed this war on   terrorism.”
Two-Star general (Major General Albert Stubbelbine) questions the attack on the Pentagon
U.S. Air Force fighter pilot, former instructor at the USAF  Fighter  Weapons School and NATO’s Tactical Leadership Program, with a 20-year   Air Force career (Lt. Colonel Guy S. Razer) said the  following:

“I am 100% convinced that the attacks of September 11,  2001  were planned, organized, and committed by treasonous perpetrators  that have  infiltrated the highest levels of our government ….
Those of us in the military took an oath to “support and  defend the  Constitution of the United States against all enemies, foreign and   domestic”. Just because we have retired does not make that oath invalid,  so it  is not just our responsibility, it is our duty to expose the  real perpetrators  of 9/11 and bring them to justice, no matter how hard  it is, how long it takes,  or how much we have to suffer to do it.
We owe it to those who have gone before us who executed that  same  oath, and who are doing the same thing in Iraq and Afghanistan right  now.  Those of us who joined the military and faithfully executed orders  that were  given us had to trust our leaders. The violation and abuse  of that trust is not  only heinous, but ultimately the most accurate  definition of  treason!”

U.S. Marine Corps lieutenant colonel, a fighter pilot with  over 300  combat missions flown and a 21-year Marine Corps career (Lt. Colonel   Shelton F. Lankford) believes that 9/11 was an inside job, and said:

“This isn’t about party, it isn’t about Bush Bashing. It’s  about our country, our constitution, and our future. …
Your countrymen have been murdered and the more you delve  into it  the more it looks as though they were murdered by our government, who   used it as an excuse to murder other people thousands of miles away.
If you ridicule others who have sincere doubts and who know  factual  information that directly contradicts the official report and who want   explanations from those who hold the keys to our government, and have  motive,  means, and opportunity to pull off a 9/11, but you are too lazy  or fearful, or …  to check into the facts yourself, what does that make  you? ….
Are you afraid that you will learn the truth and you can’t  handle it? …”

U.S. Navy ‘Top Gun’ pilot (Commander Ralph Kolstad) who  questions  the official account of 9/11 and is calling for a new investigation,   says “When  one starts using his own mind, and not what one was told, there is very little  to believe in the official story”.
The Group Director on matters of national security in the  U.S. Government Accountability Office said that President Bush did not respond to unprecedented warnings of the  9/11 disaster and conducted a massive cover-up instead of accepting  responsibility
Additionally, numerous military leaders from allied  governments have questioned 9/11, such as:
Canadian Minister of Defense, the top military leader of  Canada (Paul Hellyer)
Assistant German Defense Minister (Andreas Von Bulow)
Commander-in-chief of the Russian Navy (Anatoli Kornukov)
Chief of staff of the Russian armed forces (General Leonid  Ivashov)

INTELLIGENCE PROFESSIONALS
Former military analyst and famed whistleblower Daniel  Ellsberg  recently said that the case of a certain 9/11 whistleblower is “far more explosive than the  Pentagon Papers“. He also said that the government is ordering  the media to cover up her allegations about 9/11. And he said that some  of the claims concerning government involvement in 9/11 are  credible,  that “very serious questions have been raised about what they [U.S.   government officials] knew beforehand and how much involvement there  might have  been”, that engineering 9/11 would not be humanly or  psychologically beyond the  scope of the current administration, and  that there’s enough evidence to justify  a new, “hard-hitting”  investigation into 9/11 with subpoenas and testimony taken  under oath.
A 27-year CIA veteran, who chaired National Intelligence  Estimates  and personally delivered intelligence briefings to Presidents Ronald   Reagan and George H.W. Bush, their Vice Presidents, Secretaries of  State, the  Joint Chiefs of Staff, and many other senior government  officials (Raymond  McGovern) said “I   think at simplest terms, there’s a cover-up. The 9/11 Report is a  joke”, and is  open to the possibility that 9/11 was an inside job.
A 29-year CIA veteran, former National Intelligence Officer  (NIO)  and former Director of the CIA’s Office of Regional and Political  Analysis  (William Bill Christison) said “I   now think there is persuasive evidence that the events of September  did not  unfold as the Bush administration and the 9/11 Commission would  have us believe.  … All three [buildings that were destroyed in the  World Trade Center] were most  probably destroyed by controlled  demolition charges placed in the buildings  before 9/11.” (and see this).
20-year  Marine Corps infantry and intelligence officer, the  second-ranking  civilian in U.S. Marine Corps Intelligence, and former CIA  clandestine  services case officer (David Steele) stated that “9/11 was at a minimum allowed to happen as a pretext for  war”, and it was probably an inside job (see Customer Review dated October  7, 2006).
A decorated 20-year CIA veteran, who Pulitzer-Prize winning   investigative reporter Seymour Hersh called “perhaps the best  on-the-ground  field officer in the Middle East”, and whose astounding  career formed the script  for the Academy Award winning motion picture  Syriana (Robert Baer) said that“the evidence points at” 9/11  having had aspects of being an inside job .
The Division Chief of the CIA’s Office of Soviet Affairs, who  served  as Senior Analyst from 1966 – 1990. He also served as Professor of   International Security at the National War College from 1986 – 2004  (Melvin  Goodman) said “The  final [9/11 Commission] report is ultimately a coverup.”
Professor of History and International Relations, University  of  Maryland. Former Executive Assistant to the Director of the National  Security  Agency, former military attaché in China, with a 21-year  career in U.S. Army  Intelligence (Major John M. Newman, PhD, U.S. Army)  questions the  government’s version of the events of 9/11.
The head of all U.S. intelligence, the Director  of National Intelligence (Mike McConnel) said “9/11  should have and could have been prevented”
A number of intelligence officials, including a CIA  Operations  Officer who co-chaired a CIA multi-agency task force coordinating   intelligence efforts among many intelligence and law enforcement  agencies (Lynne  Larkin) sent a joint letter to Congress expressing  their concerns about “serious   shortcomings,” “omissions,” and “major flaws” in the 9/11 Commission  Report and  offering their services for a new investigation (they were ignored).
SCIENTISTS
A prominent physicist with 33 years of service for the Naval   Research Laboratory in Washington, DC (Dr. David L. Griscom) said that  the  official theory for why the Twin Towers and world trade center  building 7  collapsed “does  not match the available facts” and supports the theory that the buildings were  brought down by controlled demolition
A world-renowned scientist, recipient of the National Medal  of  Science, America’s highest honor for scientific achievement (Dr. Lynn   Margulis) said:

“I   suggest that those of us aware and concerned demand that the glaringly  erroneous  official account of 9/11 be dismissed as a fraud and a new,  thorough, and  impartial investigation be undertaken.“

The former head of the Fire Science Division of the  government  agency which claims that the World Trade Centers collapsed due to  fire  (the National Institute of Standards and Technology), who is one of the   world’s leading fire science researchers and safety engineers, a Ph.D.  in  mechanical engineering (Dr. James Quintiere), called   for an independent review of the World Trade Center Twin Tower  collapse  investigation. “I wish that there would be a peer review of  this,” he said,  referring to the NIST investigation. “I think all the  records that NIST has  assembled should be archived. I would really like  to see someone else take a  look at what they’ve done; both  structurally and from a fire point of view. … I  think the official  conclusion that NIST arrived at is questionable.”
The principal electrical engineer for the entire World Trade  Center  complex, who was “very familiar with the structures and [the Twin   Towers'] conceptual design parameters” (Richard F. Humenn), stated   that “the mass and strength of the structure should have survived the  localized  damage caused by the planes and burning jet fuel . . . . the  fuel and planes  alone did not bring the Towers down.”
Former Director for Research, Director for Aeronautical  Projects,  and Flight Research Program Manager for NASA’s Dryden Flight Research   Center, who holds masters degrees in both physics and engineering (Dwain  A.  Deets) says:

“The many   visual images (massive structural members being hurled horizontally,  huge  pyroclastic clouds, etc.) leave no doubt in my mind explosives  were involved [in  the destruction of the World Trade Centers on 9/11].”

A prominent physicist, former U.S. professor of physics from  a top  university, and a former principal investigator for the U.S. Department  of  Energy, Division of Advanced Energy Projects (Dr. Steven E. Jones)  stated that the world trade centers were brought down by controlled  demolition
A U.S. physics professor who teaches at several universities  (Dr. Crockett Grabbe) believes that the World Trade Centers were brought down by controlled demolition 
An expert on demolition (Bent Lund) said that the trade  centers were brought down with explosives (in Danish)
A Dutch demolition expert (Danny Jowenko) stated that WTC 7 was imploded
A safety engineer and accident analyst for the Finnish  National Safety Technology Authority (Dr. Heikki Kurttila) stated  regarding WTC 7 that “The great speed of the collapse and  the low  value of the resistance factor strongly suggest controlled  demolition.”
A 13-year professor of metallurgical engineering at a U.S.   university, with a PhD in materials engineering, a former Congressional  Office  of Technology Assessment Senior Staff Member (Dr. Joel S.  Hirschhorn), is calling  for a new investigation of 9/11
A  Danish professor of chemistry (Dr. Niels Harrit) said, in a mainstream Danish  newspaper, “WTC7   collapsed exactly like a house of cards. If the fires or damage in one  corner  had played a decisive role, the building would have fallen in  that direction.  You don’t have to be a woodcutter to grasp this” (translated)
A former guidance systems engineer for Polaris and Trident  missiles  and professor emeritus, mathematics and computer science at a   university concluded (Dr. Bruce R. Henry) that the Twin Towers “were brought down  by planted explosives.”
A mechanical engineer with 20 years experience as a Fire  Protection  Engineer for the U.S. Departments of Energy, Defense, and Veterans   Affairs, who is a contributing Subject Matter Expert to the U.S.  Department of  Energy Fire Protection Engineering Functional Area  Qualification Standard for  Nuclear Facilities, a board member of the  Northern California – Nevada Chapter  of the Society of Fire Protection  Engineers, currently serving as Fire  Protection Engineer for the city  of San Jose, California, the 10th largest city  in the United States  (Edward S. Munyak) believes that the  World Trade Center was destroyed by controlled demolition.
The former Chief of the Strategic and Emergency Planning  Branch,  U.S. Department of Energy, and former Director of the Office of   Engineering at the Public Service Commission in Washington, D.C., who is  a  mechanical engineer (Enver Masud) , does  not believe the official  story, and believes that there is a prima  facie case for controlled demolition  of the World Trade Center.
A professor of mathematics (Gary Welz) said “The  official  explanation that I’ve heard doesn’t make sense because it  doesn’t explain why I  heard and felt an explosion before the South  Tower fell and why the concrete was  pulverized”
STRUCTURAL ENGINEERS AND ARCHITECTS
A prominent  engineer  with 55 years experience, in charge of the design of hundreds of  major  building projects including high rise offices, former member of the   California Seismic Safety Commission and former member of the National  Institute  of Sciences Building Safety Council (Marx Ayres) believes  that the World Trade  Centers were brought down by controlled demolition  (see also this)
Two professors of structural engineering at a prestigious  Swiss  university (Dr. Joerg Schneider and Dr. Hugo Bachmann) said that, on  9/11, World Trade Center 7 was brought down by controlled demolition (translation here)
Kamal S. Obeid,  structural engineer, with a masters degree in Engineering from UC Berkeley,  of Fremont, California
Ronald H.  Brookman, structural engineer, with a masters degree in Engineering from UC  Davis, of Novato California
Graham John  Inman, structural engineer, of London, England
Paul W. Mason,  structural engineer, of Melbourne, Australia
Mills M. Kay  Mackey, structural engineer, of Denver, Colorado
David Scott, Structural  Engineer, of Scotland
Nathan Lomba, Structural  Engineer, of Eureka, California
Edward E. Knesl,  civil and structural engineer, of Phoenix, Arizona
David Topete, civil  and structural engineer, San Francisco, California
Charles  Pegelow, structural engineer, of Houston, Texas (and see this)
Dennis Kollar,  structural engineer, of West Bend, Wisconsin
Doyle  Winterton, structural engineer (retired)
Michael T. Donly, P.E.,  structural engineer
William  Rice, P.E., structural engineer, former professor of Vermont Technical  College
An architect, member of the American Institute of Architects,  who  has been a practicing architect for 20 years and has been responsible  for  the production of construction documents for numerous steel-framed  and  fire-protected buildings for uses in many different areas,  including education,  civic, rapid transit and industrial use (Richard  Gage) disputes the claim that  fire and  airplane damage brought down the World Trade Centers and  believes there is  strong evidence of controlled demolition (many other architects who question  9/11 are listed here)
LEGAL SCHOLARS
Former Federal Prosecutor, Office of Special Investigations,  U.S.  Department of Justice under Presidents Jimmy Carter and Ronald Reagan;   former U.S. Army Intelligence officer, and currently a widely-sought  media  commentator on terrorism and intelligence services (John Loftus) questions the government’s  version of 9/11.
Former Inspector General, U.S. Department of Transportation;  former  Professor of Aviation, Dept. of Aerospace Engineering and Aviation and   Professor of Public Policy, Ohio State University (Mary Schiavo) questions the government’s  version of 9/11.
Professor of International Law at the University of Illinois,   Champaign; a leading practitioner and advocate of international law;  responsible  for drafting the Biological Weapons Anti-Terrorism Act of  1989, the American  implementing legislation for the 1972 Biological  Weapons Convention; served on  the Board of Directors of Amnesty  International (1988-1992), and represented  Bosnia- Herzegovina at the  World Court, with a Doctor of Law Magna Cum Laude as  well as a Ph.D. in  Political Science, both from Harvard University (Dr. Francis  Boyle) questions  the government’s version of 9/11.
Former prosecutor in the Organized Crime and Racketeering  Section of  the U.S. Justice Department and a key member of Attorney General  Bobby  Kennedy’s anti-corruption task force; former assistant U.S. Attorney  for  the Northern District of Illinois (J. Terrence “Terry” Brunner) questions the government’s  version of 9/11.
Professor Emeritus, International Law, Professor of Politics  and  International Affairs, Princeton University; in 2001 served on the   three-person UN Commission on Human Rights for the Palestine  Territories, and  previously, on the Independent International  Commission on Kosovo (Richard Falk)  questions the  government’s version of 9/11., and asks  whether the Neocons were behind 9/11.
Bessie Dutton Murray Distinguished Professor of Law Emeritus  and  Director, Center for Human Rights, University of Iowa; Fellow, World  Academy  of Art and Science. Honorary Editor, Board of Editors, American  Journal of  International Law (Burns H. Weston) questions the  government’s version of 9/11.
Former president of the National Lawyers Guild (C. Peter  Erlinder), who signed a petition  calling for a real investigation into 9/11. And see petition.
Assistant Professor of Criminal Justice at Troy University;   associate General Counsel, National Association of Federal Agents;  Retired Agent  in Charge, Internal Affairs, U.S. Customs, responsible  for the internal  integrity and security for areas encompassing nine  states and two foreign  locations; former Federal Sky Marshall; 27-year  U.S. Customs career (Mark  Conrad) questions the  government’s version of 9/11.
Professor of Law, University of Freiburg; former Minister of  Justice of West Germany (Horst Ehmke) questions the  government’s version of 9/11.
Director of Academic Programs, Institute for Policy and  Economic  Development, University of Texas, El Paso, specializing in executive   branch secrecy policy, governmental abuse, and law and bureaucracy;  former U.S.  Army Signals Intelligence officer; author of several books  on law and political  theory (Dr. William G. Weaver) questions the  government’s version of 9/11.
Famed trial attorney (Gerry Spence) questions the  government’s version of 9/11.
Former Instructor of Criminal Trial Practice, Boalt Hall  School of  Law, University of California at Berkeley 11-year teaching career.   Retired Chief Assistant Public Defender, Contra Costa County, California  31-year  career (William Veale) said:

“When  you grow up in  the United States, there are some bedrock principles  that require concerted  effort to discard. One is the simplest: that our  leaders are good and decent  people whose efforts may occasionally  warrant criticism but never because of  malice or venality… But one  grows up. … And with the lawyer’s training comes the  reliance on  evidence and the facts that persuade… After a lot of reading,  thought,  study, and commiseration, I have come to the conclusion that the   attacks of 9/11 were, in their essence, an inside job perpetrated at the  highest  levels of the U S government.”

FAMILY MEMBERS AND HEROIC FIRST  RESPONDERS
A common criticism of those who question 9/11 is that they  are being “disrespectful to the victims and their families”.
However, half of the victim’s  families believe that 9/11 was an inside job (according to the head of the  largest 9/11 family group, Bill Doyle) (and listen to this interview). Many family and friends of victims not only  support the search for 9/11 truth, but they demand it (please ignore the partisan tone). See also this interview.
Indeed, it has now become so clear that the 9/11 Commission  was a  whitewash that the same 9/11 widows who called for the creation of the   9/11 Commission are now demanding a  NEW investigation (see also this  video).
And dying heroes, soon-to-be victims themselves, the first   responders who worked tirelessly to save lives on and after 9/11, say  that controlled demolition brought down the Twin Towers and that a  real investigation is necessary.

PSYCHIATRISTS AND  PSYCHOLOGISTS
Finally, those who attack people who question the  government’s  version of 9/11 as “crazy” may wish to review the list of mental  health  professionals who have concluded that the official version of 9/11 is   false:
Psychiatrist Carol  S. Wolman, MD
Psychiatrist E.  Martin Schotz
Associate Clinical Professor of Psychiatry and Behavioral  Sciences,  Duke University Medical Center, as well as Radiology, at Duke   University Medical Center D. Lawrence Burk,  Jr., MD
Board of Governors Distinguished Service Professor of  Psychology and  Associate Dean of the Graduate School at Ruters University Barry R.  Komisaruk
Professor of Psychology at University of New Hampshire William  Woodward
Professor of Psychology at University of Essex Philip Cozzolino
Professor of Psychology at Goddard College Catherine Lowther
Professor Emeritus of Psychology at California Institute of  Integral Studies Ralph  Metzner
Professor of Psychology at Rhodes University Mike  Earl-Taylor
Retired Professor of Psychology at Oxford University Graham Harris
Ph.D. in Clinical Psychology from the University of Nebraska  and licensed Psychologist Ronald  Feintech
Ph.D. Clinical Neuropsychologist Richard  Welser

THOUSANDS OF OTHERS
The roster above is only a sample. There are too many Ph.D.   scientists and engineers, architects, military and intelligence  officials,  politicians, legal scholars and other highly-credible people  who question 9/11 —  literally thousands — to list in one place. Here  are a few additional people to  consider:
The former director of the FBI (Louis Freeh) says there was a cover up by the 9/11 Commission
Former air traffic controller, who knows the flight corridor  which  the two planes which hit the Twin Towers flew “like the back of my hand”   and who handled two actual hijackings (Robin Hordon) says that  9/11 could  not have occurred as the government says, and that planes  can be tracked on  radar even when their transponders are turned off (also, listen to this interview)
Perhaps “the  premiere collapse expert in the country”, who 9/11 Commissioner Timothy  Roemer referred to as a “very,  very respected expert on building collapse”,  the head of the New York Fire  Department’s Special Operations Command  and the most highly decorated  firefighter in its NYFD history, who had  previously “commanded rescue operations  at many difficult and complex  disasters, including the Oklahoma  City Bombing, the 1993 World Trade Center Bombing, and many natural disasters  worldwide” thought that the  collapse of the South Tower was caused by bombs, because the  collapse  of the building was too even to have been caused by anything  else (pages 5-6).
Former Deputy Secretary for Intelligence and Warning under  Nixon,  Ford, and Carter (Morton Goulder), former former Deputy Director to the   White House Task Force on Terrorism (Edward L. Peck), and former US  Department  of State Foreign Service Officer (J. Michael Springmann), as  well as a who’s who  of liberals and independents) jointly call for a new investigation into 9/11 
Former FBI agent (Robert Wright) says “The  FBI, rather than  trying to prevent a terrorist attack, was merely  gathering intelligence so they  would know who to arrest when a  terrorist attack occurred.”
Former Minnesota Governor (Jesse Ventura) questions  the government’s account of 9/11 and asks whether the World Trade Center was  demolished
Former FBI translator, who the  Department of Justice’s Inspector General and several senators have called  extremely credible (free subscription required) (Sibel Edmonds), said   “If they were to do real investigations we would see several  significant high  level criminal prosecutions in this country. And that  is something that they are  not going to let out. And, believe me; they  will do everything to cover this  up”. She also is leaning towards the conclusion that 9/11 was an inside  job. Some of her allegations have been confirmed in the British  press.



POSTED AUGUST 30, 2011

AIRPORT NAZIS,  MOVE OVER!

Why should you have all the fun? Well, no more. Many Federal agencies are getting in on the festivities. I am speaking about the ever increasing domestic swat team raids. I know, we've got to fight the terrorists. Unfortunately, we are now, all terrorists.

Federal agencies and their local stooges are now swat teaming peaceful, law abiding citizens at a record pace. Whether it's selling raw milk, natural food stores, vitamin   manufacturers or a guitar manufacturing company, you get a friendly swat team raid. Get down on the ground! has now replaced "God Bless America". Let's not forget the Al-Qaeda lemonade stands or garage sales. How about those terrorist gardens people plant in their own yards. Yes, let's swat team them too.

I don't know if there is enough collective courage in 2011 America to even begin to oppose these people. Some of my own relatives say "there's nothing you can do". A view towards the future contradicts that. There will be a lot you can do. You can be arrested. You can be assaulted by police. You can have your property stolen. You can be put on a train to a FEMA camp. In the beginning of our republic, our founders pledged their lives, their fortunes and their sacred honor. Watching the cowering at any airport shows there is precious little of that left.

Bruce                    New World Order News


Gibson Guitar Corp. Responds to Armed Federal Raid



Gibson.com
August 29, 2011
Henry Juszkiewicz, Chairman and CEO of Gibson Guitar Corp., has  responded to the August 24 raid of Gibson facilities in Nashville and  Memphis by the Federal Government. In a press release, Juszkiewicz said:  “Gibson is innocent and will fight to protect its rights. Gibson has  complied with foreign laws and believes it is innocent of ANY wrong  doing. We will fight aggressively to prove our innocence.”
Media from around the world picked up on Thursday’s press conference  in which Gibson Guitar Chairman and CEO Henry Juszkiewicz spoke out  defiantly against recent federal raids at Gibson’s Memphis and Nashville  facilities.
Juszkiewicz said at the press conference outside the Gibson USA factory in Nashville:
“We believe the arrogance of federal power is impacting me  personally, our company personally and the employees here in Tennessee,  and it’s just plain wrong.”
Today, Juszkiewicz said that he was, “very gratified at the media’s  overwhelmingly supportive coverage of the issue this week and especially  encouraged by the huge number of positive comments on various social  media platforms.”
He also added, noting the volume of attention the story has received,  “perhaps our good friends in the media can use their investigative  skills to help us to get the bottom of exactly why the government has  singled out Gibson for harassment.”



POSTED AUGUST 29, 2011

IT'S BAD, BUT IT'S GOOD

I have commented several times on the "doublespeak" of our government masters. It does not matter what they say. A substantial portion of the American public will believe and defend them, no matter how ridiculous.

Here's some examples. What is commonly referred to as Al-Qaeda, had it's creation back during the Soviet-Afghan war to oppose the Soviet invasion. That's good! No, that's bad, because Al-Qaeda then kept U.S. supplied weapons to use in future terrorist events. That's bad! No, that's good because U.S. interests used Al-Qaeda to destabilize Yugoslavia and give independence to several former republics. That's good! No, that's bad, because Al-Qaeda was said to be behind several terrorist events resulting in the destruction of American property and the loss of American lives. That's bad! No, that's good, because the U.S. has used Al-Qaeda to conduct a revolt against the government of Muammar Gaddafi. Stay tuned for the next chapter.

This is common for U.S. foreign policy. At the beginning of World War 2, the Soviet Union was an enemy of the United States. Later the Soviet Union was an ally. During that war Japan and Germany were the enemy. After the war Germany and Japan were allies and the Soviet Union was the enemy. Saddam Hussein, Manuel Noriega, The Shah of Iran, Ferdinand Marcos, Slobodan Milošević were all friends of the U.S. government until the government decided they would now be enemies. And just think---- all of you who put your lives on the line in the U.S. military could have been used to first defend, then attack, the new enemies of our government masters.

Bruce                    New World Order News



Libya: The Greatest Betrayal
Tony Cartalucci
Infowars.com
August 29, 2011


 

First – let’s not labor under any delusions. Obama, Cameron, and  Sarkozy are heads of state in name only. It is the depravity and  megalomania amongst the banks, corporations, and the institutions  they have contrived, that are responsible for the most egregious  betrayal in Western history. For 10 years the West’s leadership have  stirred up hatred and fear amongst their populations to justify a  lengthy and very costly global war that has sent US, British, Canadian,  German, French, and many other troops, around the world, into dangerous  adversity, and ultimately to their graves to fight “the forces of  terror.”
Now, almost as if savoring the irony, the New York Times,  on behalf of the corporate-financier oligarchs that presume dominion  over the Western world, fully admit that Al Qaeda terrorists,men who literally killed US troops in both Iraq and Afghanistan  are now in Libya and are the benefactors of billions of dollars in  Western aid, diplomatic recognition, training, weapons, the lending of  intelligence assets, the full unwavering support of the West’s “media,”  NATO-member air support, and even graced with Western special forces  fighting side-by-side with them on the ground. This timely confession is  also in response in part to revelations that the Libyan rebel commander  now filling the streets of Tripoli with indescribable horror is a  hardcore Al Qaeda leader, reported first in the Telegraph months ago, and again this week on RT and covered in depth by respected geopolitical analyst Dr. Webster Tarpley.
While naive Americans are brimming with pride as the military machine  bankrupting them into destitution rolls over another minute nation an  ocean away, they seem ignorant or unable to wrap their minds around how  egregiously they’ve been betrayed. After 10 years, thousands of dead  troops, tens of thousands broken mentally or physically, an economy  diverted to war, occupation, and “nation building” overseas while  America’s infrastructure rots beneath her, the corporate-financier  oligarchs have decided to betray and infinitely humiliate America’s  armed forces in the worst manner imaginable – have them provide air  cover, intel, and special operational support for blood-thirsty  mercenaries that hunted and killed their brothers in arms for the past  decade.
Entire families have been destroyed, communities devastated by the  loss of their brothers and sisters, friends, mothers and fathers, sons  and daughters, fighting what they thought was a war for the very  survival of their way of life. Today, in Libya, with Al Qaeda literally  being handed a nation-state by these corporate-financiers through their  political and military proxies, the leaders we have elected and the  corporations we have helped grow to monstrous proportions now squat upon  the graves our nation’s fallen and defile their memories and the ideals  they believed they were giving their lives for in an unforgivable way.
And while it will be claimed by many that this is “Obama’s War,” it  most certainly is not. The very cadre of Neo-Conservatives that  engineered the last decade of debilitating global war at the expense of  American blood and treasure have been quietly cheerleading the expansion  of NATO’s intervention in Libya. This can be seen in unequivocal terms in a letter written to US House Republicans  imploring them to end their resistance to the current, unconstitutional  war, and instead discard the UNSC resolution and give even more support  for the terrorists seizing Libya on their behalf. Paul Wolfowitz,  Elliott Abrams, Max Boot, Frederick Kagan, Karl Rove, Ellen Bork, Robert  Kagan, Liz Cheney, William Kristol, Dan Senor, and James Woolsey are  just some of the names of individuals that affixed their signatures at  the bottom of this letter. Quite clearly, this is not exclusively  “Obama’s War,” rather one engineered and promoted by the Fortune 500  banks and corporations that include both Obama and America’s most  notorious Neo-Conservatives as loyal servants.
If ever there was a time for our military, not just the rank and  file, but the officers that lead them and whose hands young fighting men  put their lives into, to recall their oath given to the US Constitution  and their duty to protect and defend their nation and their people, it  would be now. If ever there was a time to recognize our self-proclaimed  leadership, crutching their legitimacy along with the facade of  “democracy” as the self-serving egregious traitors they are – the time  is now. And when the people’s faith in their government falters, let us  be vigilant against pretend reformers. Let us make sure military men  stepping forward to rectify our nation’s slide into the surreal aren’t corporate-fascist serving Council on Foreign Relations members likeGeneral Stanley McChrystal or General David Petraeus, both of whom are guilty of helping to foist this facade upon the American people at tragic costs to us all.
For the average man or woman in America, now would be a good time to start putting these corporations and banks out of business. Boycott and replace them systematically,  day to day, little by little. America has misplaced their faith in  these world-spanning corporations and have traded their independence and  self-reliance in for the illusion of convenience. It is time to take  that independence back. It is also time to vote each and every incumbent  out of office that has served these agendas and promoted this war, now  exposed as an absolute hoax. Those like John McCain, Lindsey Graham, and  Joe Lieberman come particularly to mind. Finally, it is time to start  getting organized as a community. Reach out to your neighbors, start a  marksmanship club, help each other with starting a garden, and start  standing up for one another when this corrupt, parasitic system comes  searching for sustenance to continue fueling its dark deeds. By  exercising each and every one of your Constitutional rights,  collectively as a community and on a daily basis, you ensure their vigor  in standing up against tyranny of all kinds.
Now is the time, this far and no further – if not for ourselves, for  the thousands of Americans that shed their lives in the belief they did  so for a higher cause and whose memories are now being defiled by the  despicable actions of Wall Street and London, and the degenerate army of  sycophants that serve them, from Europe to North America, from Israel’s leadership, to the corporate oligarchs that manipulate the people of Australia. This evil empire has reached an intolerable height.
For a list of the corporate-financier interests that truly run Western society please see, “Naming Names.” For more information on self-sufficiency please see, “The Globalsits’ Worst Nightmare.” To learn more about why and how to boycott the corporate-financiers that dominate our lives, please see, “Destroy the Globalists.”



POSTED AUGUST 27, 2011



JACKSON HOLE: LEARNING TO LIVE WITH LESS

Well, not them----YOU! Some of our government and corporate masters are at still another lavish junket in Jackson Hole, Wyoming. And you guessed it, you're paying for it. Taking time off from the partying and revelry, some of them grace us with a few minutes answering soft ball questions and giving highly generalized speeches which say absolutely nothing.

Such is the case with FED chairman Ben Bernanke. CNBC interrupted its' programming to carry his Friday speech live. They they spent the next several hours discussing it. The speech was typically filled with meaningless gibberish and a total lack of specifics. He hardly had to fly in a private jet to Jackson Hole to say that.

Here's a question for Ben. You have repeatly referred to an acknowledged national debt of over 15 trillion. Please outline for us a plan to pay it back? Let me answer for him. The debt will never be paid back. How about this? What is the fed plan to deal with the inevitable repatriation of trillions of dollars in U.S. currency, bonds and notes? Here's another. The FED acknowledges the U.S. government borrows approximately 100 billion dollars a month to meet its' current obligation of which only 30 billion can borrowed from outside sources. What is the FED plan to make up the difference? Of course the media whores will never ask anything like that. They are too busy riding in the fast lane with their buddies on the champaign circuit.

Bruce     New World Order News 

Jackson Hole: Learning To Live With Less
 
   By Greg Robb 
 

JACKSON HOLE, Wyo. (Dow Jones)--A recurring theme of the Jackson Hole Fed conference this year is that the U.S. is going to have to start to learn to live with less -- but that Washington is unprepared for the task.

From the gorgeous vistas of the Grand Teton mountain range, economists at the Fed policy conference like to gaze out far into the horizon to see what issues lay ahead. This year, the limits on government are in focus.

"The U.S. has yet to wrestle with the question of public policy priorities in a world of scarce resources," Harvard professor Katherine Baicker wrote in a paper delivered at the calling for fundamental re-think of health-care spending.

Spending on health care has increased at an alarming rate -- from $330 billion in 1966 to $2.7 trillion in 2011, or 16% of GDP.

Despite these spending levels, highly cost-effective treatments like aspirin are underused while unproven procedures such as proton beam therapy are generously reimbursed.

Traditional Washington approaches to the problem will not get the job done.

"Solving the fiscal imbalances in current public programs such as Medicare, by raising taxes or crudely cutting reimbursements, will not in and of itself improve the efficiency of the care that is delivered," Baicker said.

Another paper at the conference attempted to set the limit of U.S. government spending.

Stephen Cecchetti, chief economist at the Bank for International Settlements, said his research shows that debt above a range of 80-100% of GDP is bad for growth.

The Congressional Budget Office projects that the debt held by the public will equal 61% of GDP by the end of 2021 but could be much higher if deficit reduction is not enacted.

"Debt is a double-edged sword. Used wisely and in moderation, it clearly improves welfare; but when it is used imprudently and in excess, the result can be disaster," Cecchetti wrote.

Another paper challenged the Washington consensus that industrial policy is anathema to growth.

Many members of Congress daily champion the notion that the economy will revive only when the government gets out of the way,

Dani Rodrik, a professor at Harvard, argued that the most successful economic development in recent years stems from direct government intervention into the economy.

"The empirical record [of industrial policy] is nowhere as bad as often asserted," he said.

"Often policy makers from countries that manifestly benefited from them, such as Chile, do their best to hide it, as if their market-oriented reputation would be tarnished if the fact were better known," Rodrik said.

In fact Chile's export industries in grapes, wine, forestry and fisheries have all benefitted greatly from government support in the form of subsidies and public research and development, he said.

But economists are pessimistic that Washington adapt to new ideas.

John Silvia, chief economist at Wells Fargo Securities, who used to be the chief economist at the Senate Banking Committee, said he was chagrined by the animosity between the two political parties.

He said Republicans and Democrats spend all of their energy destroying each other's ideas rather than finding some common ground.

-Greg Robb; 415-439-6400; AskNewswires@dowjones.com 


POSTED AUGUST 25, 2011

THE NEXT CIVIL WAR

It's not what you think. Not an hour of the day goes by without someone suggesting the American people will eventually confront their masters with the millions of weapons still possessed by the people. I don't doubt that there is that possibility, but due to the collective cowardice on the part of the average American, coupled with confronting space age weapons with rifles and pistols, makes that highly unlikely.

Un be-known to our government masters, they themselves are orchestrating their own undoing. Think of the defining event in the fall of the Soviet Union. Boris Yeltsin was standing on a tank facing down elements of the Soviet Army. That tank was the property of the Province of Russia, Army, not an average Soviet citizen. It is no secret, power hungry "Hitlers in the making" are taking over positions of power all over America. The problem is, those types are never satisfied. They always want more. Stalin had his Trotsky. Hitler had his Ernst Rohm. Eventually they turned on each other.

Below is a list of agencies authorized to store and carry weapons. Each one of those agencies have some that are power mad. Each one of those agencies have people that would love to be the "dictator". Many of those agencies either have or have access to weapons of mass destruction. Many of those agencies have small armies. It's only a matter of time before one or more makes a move. That's history. And that's how most revolutions actually start.

Bruce                      New World Order News 


Federal Agencies with Personnel Authorized to Carry Firearms Included in GAO’s Review

Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms National Institutes of Health
Bureau of Engraving and Printing National Park Service
Drug Enforcement Administration
U.S. Customs Service
Federal Bureau of Investigation
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
Federal Bureau of Prisons 
U.S. Marshals Service
Federal Emergency Management Agency 
U.S. Mint
Federal Protective Service 
U.S. Postal Inspection Service
Immigration and Naturalization Service 
U.S. Secret Service
Internal Revenue Service, 
Criminal Investigation Department of Veterans Affairs

Let's add:
United States Army
United States Navy
United States Marine Corp
United States Air Force
United States Coast Guard
All the National Guard Units of all 50 States
All State Police
All local police forces
Homeland Security
Central Intelligence Agency
National Security Agency


POSTED AUGUST 24, 2011

POLICE THUGS CONFISCATE CAMERAS

If there is any question as to whether most police will fire on unarmed Americans, if ordered, that should have been put to rest after the incidents described below. Steve Chabot, a Republican, held, what was described as, a town hall meeting in the Cincinnati, Ohio area. Of course these "town hall meetings" are nothing more than rehearsed cheerleading events complete with prearranged "softball" questions and photo ops.

Unfortunately, for Chabot, some resent these events and resent him. No matter. Our government masters, of which Chabot is one, have police to "follow orders". Chabot ordered his police to confiscate cameras and cell phones at the "event". I guess he didn't want those who elected him and pay his salary to actually see what's going on. Not bothering to think independently, the police did as they were ordered.

This is America today. Even though we have millions of laws on the books, our government masters have no obligation to follow them. They now are allowed to make law on the fly. So, if someone like Congressman Chabot says it's illegal to make video of a public event, then that settles it. All he has to do is give a reason for his actions and it becomes law. If an individual resists his order, they then are arrested for violating his declaration. Never call the police . Stay away from them. Stay away from your representatives and those who serve them. Don't vote for them. Time to think of survival and forget about anyone in our government assisting you in that endeavor.

Bruce                      New World Order News


Cops Confiscate Cameras at Ohio Congressman’s Town Hall
Kurt Nimmo
Infowars.com
August 24, 2011

A congressman from Ohio had cops grab the cameras of constituents  during a town hall meeting. Steve Chabot, a Republican, had cell phones  and cameras confiscated in order to “prevent an embarrassing Youtube  video from making the rounds,” according to Carlos Miller, who runs a blog documenting efforts by the state to stifle the First Amendment rights of photographers.
See video of the incident below.
Police said the cameras were taken “to protect the constituents.” A  local television station, however, was allowed to videotape the meeting  and the brazen move by Chabot and the cops.
Think Progress, the Soros-funded media operation,  also reported the incident, primarily because Chabot is an  establishment Republican and protesters outside the event called for  more taxes. The Democrat blog reported:

Media were permitted to record the event, making the ban  on citizen cameras all the more baffling. Clearly no “security” threat  existed; rather, as one of Chabot’s staffers told ThinkProgress, they  wanted to “prevent” people from “making a show” of the event. Indeed,  Chabot and his staff were worried enough about citizens voicing their  anger at his policies that they only accepted pre-screened questions  chosen by the congressman’s staff.

This should not be perplexing – the controlled corporate media can be  trusted to not embarrass Rep. Chabot, at least not on points that  matter, while citizens cannot.
It is also interesting that Think Progress attributes the current  economic implosion to Chabot and the Republicans when Democrat Obama is  in the White House and allegedly in control.
In fact, neither Obama or the Republicans control the economy. It is controlled by a Federal Reserve that has doubled the monetary base since last August.
—



POSTED AUGUST 23, 2011

THEY NEED TO WATCH YOU DRIVE

It's the same old thing from our government masters and their corporate masters. Basically, they need to watch everything you do. They need to hear everything you say. They need to read everything you write and they need to see you naked at the airport. I think that just about covers it.

I know. This is all for your own good. I think it was Ronald Reagan who said "The most terrifying words in the English language are: I'm from the government and I'm here to help." And help they have. Not to be out-done, the insurance industry is attempting to ride the same horse. Below is an article exposing a new idea coming from the auto insurance industry. They want to install electronic devices to track every move you make while driving. They sell it by promising discounts and accurate ana-lyses of traffic accidents.

Of course there is a large number of Americans who will do whatever they are told and defend it --- no matter how ridiculous. In this matter let's imagine the ultimate end. How about a camera to watch  and record you? How about a microphone to hear and record everything you say? How about a remote kill switch for a government or corporate master to control your car? How about requiring you to scan your credit card before you start your car? That way they can collect fines immediately. All of this is for your own good, so submit. If you don't, you're a terrorist.

Bruce                            New World Order News



Another view: Steer clear of cars that spy


By Marc Rotenberg
Updated 4d 22h ago


 


First, governments put up red-light cameras at  intersections for ticketing and then sent police around with automated  license plate readers.


 




OUR VIEW: In-car tracking is fine, as long as insurers don't require it


Now car insurance companies want you to install a  new device in your car so  they can track how you drive and when you  drive. The companies say  this could reduce your insurance rates, but  there is more to the story.
The data that are  collected by the insurers  don't  stay with the insurers and won't  be used only to calculate  rates. Police could get access to your driving habits, as could state  agencies.
Most critically, these  data could be used in  claims disputes by the insurer and others against you. That means that  the auto insurer's "black box" in your car could become Exhibit A in a case against you.
Collecting better data about accidents is  important for auto safety, but fairness remains a critical concern if  drivers are told they have to accept the determination of an insurance  company. One  survey of nearly 700 crashes involving vehicles with  manufacturer-installed "event data recorders" (similar to the devices  insurers want to put in cars), found that there were problems retrieving  the data in almost 40% of the cases.


USA TODAY OPINION

About Editorials/Debate
Opinions expressed in USA TODAY's editorials are decided by its Editorial Board, a demographically and ideologically diverse group that is separate from USA TODAY's news staff.
Most editorials are accompanied by an opposing view — a unique USA  TODAY feature that allows readers to reach conclusions based on both  sides of an argument rather than just the Editorial Board's point of  view.



Also, the insurers are not the only ones who want  to spy on you. The federal government is considering mandating  event  data recorders in all vehicles — the Transportation Department  already requires EDRs for long-haul vehicles, including those operated by independent owners.
The companies are aware of privacy concerns.  Progressive has a pretty good privacy policy for its "Pay as You Drive"  program. But privacy policies are easy to change, and once the data  are  gathered it is not so easy to get them  back.
Some states looked down the road and saw the  privacy problem coming. California passed legislation  in 2004 that  limits the use of information collected by event data recorders. Other  states have followed California's lead, but these laws may not cover the  new data gathering, which is even more extensive.
Until there are laws that limit the use of your  data by auto insurers, if you see an exit sign that reads "Lower Rates  with New Tracking Technology," just drive on past.
 
Marc Rotenberg is executive director of the Electronic Privacy Information Center  in Washington, D.C.



POSTED AUGUST 22, 2011

FEDERAL RESERVE LOOTING TREASURY

One of the biggest mistakes made by those running our government in 1913, was to turn over total control of the U.S. money supply and printing thereof, to a private consortium of international bankers commonly known as the Federal Reserve. All previous printing of U.S. currency and infusion of money is totally controlled by them. In fact, those bankers get paid for every single dollar printed. Because of the system, it is physically impossible to for the U.S. government to pay back the debt created.

The article below covers the arrogant dispensing of trillions of dollars which are supposed to be the property of the U.S. citizens. The whole reason our Constitution required the minting of money to be controlled by the U.S. Congress was to avoid exactly what's happening today. Much of the money provided is to foreign interests. This being done without the permission, nor the knowledge of Congress.

When the governments of dictators face collapse, one of their final acts is to loot the treasury. They then escape to some other country living off their stolen money. Obviously, our economy cannot last under the oppressive debt already created, to say nothing about that which is yet to come. The international bankers know it better than anyone, therefore they're packing their bags. Unfortunately for us, they are packing their bags with our money. Anyway--- how about those Cowboys!

Bruce                    New World Order News



Bloomberg reveals massive corruption in the private Federal Reserve
Madison Ruppert
Infowars.com
August 22, 2011
When  the mainstream media is reporting stories like this, you know it is so  serious that it cannot be ignored, even if they wanted to.
Today Bloomberg has revealed that the “Wall Street Aristocracy”  received a staggering $1.2 trillion in loans. Yes, you read that right:  $1.2 trillion.
The private Federal Reserve calls these hand-outs to their corporate  cronies “emergency loans” but in reality they are nothing more than  friends giving friends unfathomable amounts of money in order to “keep  the economy from plunging into depression”.
Of course Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke and Bloomberg opt to  characterize the giveaway of public funds as legitimate “unprecedented  efforts” to help our withering economy, when this is far from the case  as we have seen from the entire “stimulus” package that has just driven  American deeper into the black hole of debt.
If Bernanke actually cared one iota about getting the American  economy back on track, he would have given the money to the people of  the United States.
This $1.2 trillion would be able to cover almost the entire 6.5  million delinquent and foreclosed mortgages of struggling American  citizens. Instead, and not at all surprisingly, Bernanke and the Fed  opted instead to give the money to their buddies.
The preponderance of the funds went to Morgan Stanley, who received  $107.3 billion. Second was Citigroup, receiving $99.5 billion, and third  was Bank of America who received $91.4 billion, according to  information obtained via FOIA requests, months of litigation, and an act  of Congress on behalf of Bloomberg.
Nearly half of the Federal Reserve’s top 30 borrowers as measured by  peak balances were not American. A disturbing amount of money, which was  given with American citizens as collateral, went directly to offshore  European banks.
The Royal Bank of Scotland in Edinburgh received $84.5 billion, UBS  AG out of Zurich got $77.2 billion, German Hypo Real Estate Holding AG  received $28.7 billion. Bloomberg reports that this equals an average of  $21 million for every single one of Hypo Real Estate Holding’s 1,366  employees.
Bloomberg reveals a quite disturbing reality in the following paragraph:

The $1.2 trillion peak on Dec. 5, 2008 — the combined  outstanding balance under the seven programs tallied by Bloomberg — was  almost three times the size of the U.S. federal budget deficit that  year and more than the total earnings of all federally insured banks in  the U.S. for the decade through 2010, according to data compiled by  Bloomberg.

This proves beyond a shadow of a doubt that the Federal Reserve is  indeed working against the American people. They are deliberately  destroying the value of the dollar, giving out free money to their  cronies to the detriment of the American economy, and to make matters  worse, they are promising to continue these practices.
One must remember, the recent audit of the Federal Reserve turned up a mind-blowing $16 trillion in emergency loans,  which banks will pay back by borrowing from the treasury, continuing  the vicious cycle that has brought us to where we are today.
Furthermore, recently the former Chairman of the Federal Reserve Alan  Greenspan revealed the rationale behind this type of operation by  saying that we would never default since we can just print more money.

These corrupt bankers think that they can continue blowing up the  bubble ad infinitum. Unfortunately, that is just not the case and  eventually this enormous financial bubble will pop, completely  diminishing the value of the dollar and the stability (or lack thereof)  of the American economy with it.


POSTED AUGUST 19, 2011

CONGRESS STAFFERS HEAD TO HAWAII

Yes, you are smart! You already know, we, the taxpayers of the U.S. are paying for this latest junket. The article below covers a story which has been almost totally ignored by the media whores in the mainstream.

Yes,  beginning August 17 at 9:00 a.m. at the Maui Beach Hotel, some of our government masters will focus on “Strengthening Self-Sufficiency: Overcoming Barriers to Economic Development in Native Communities.” What a pile of crap! It kind of reminds me of a junket at a lavish resort in Switzerland a couple of years ago for the purpose of studying poverty in the 3rd world.

I think it is too late for us. It is obvious that our government masters have removed any pretense of representing citizens or having even a shred of compassion for the more than 300 million here over which they rule. I don't know how this is going to end or when, but I cannot see this ending peacefully. I am reminded of the collapse of the Romanian government in 1989. The then President, Nicolae Ceausescu and his wife were taken out and shot. I seem to remember that his wife was made to wear one of her many mink coats. I guess people in power think they are immune from the lessons of history.

Bruce                        New World Order News




Democratic Hill staffers head to Maui on taxpayers’ dime for Senate Indian Affairs Committee field hearing

Published: 12:29 AM  08/12/2011				 | Updated: 2:47 PM  08/12/2011





By Matthew Boyle - The Daily Caller



Matthew  Boyle is a reporter at The Daily Caller. He studied journalism at  Flagler College in St. Augustine, Florida, where he worked as an editor  at the school's newspaper, The Gargoyle.



 
 
 
19
 











  
The sun sets poolside at the Grand Wailea Resort, in Wailea, Maui, Hawaii. (Marco Garcia/AP)











Senate Democrats are charging taxpayers for a trip to Hawaii,  The Daily Caller has learned. The entire press staff of the Senate  Indian Affairs Committee is in Maui, even though a field hearing there  won’t happen until next Wednesday.
The committee’s oversight field hearing, scheduled for August 17 at 9:00 a.m. at the Maui Beach Hotel, will focus on “Strengthening Self-Sufficiency: Overcoming Barriers to Economic Development in Native Communities.”
Rick Manning from Americans for Limited Government, which first discovered the hearing, told TheDC it’s unbelievable that Hill staffers talking about fiscal responsibility would waste money on a trip to Maui.
“It’s outrageous that Senate Democrats have so little respect for the  American taxpayer that in the same month they buried our credit rating,  they’re heading to Hawaii to celebrate,” Manning said.
A committee staffer told TheDC that the reason the hearing will be in  Maui is “mostly because it’s his [committee chairman Sen. Daniel  Akaka’s] home state.” It’s unclear if the field hearing will focus on  any issues relating at all to Hawaii, or if the reasoning for scheduling  the trip there is only because Akaka will already be in Hawaii during  the congressional recess.
The staffer said Akaka is the only senator who will attend.
The Democratic committee staffers used taxpayer funding to travel to Hawaii  a full week before their committee’s hearing date. When TheDC called  the committee’s Washington, D.C., office Thursday afternoon, a different  staffer who answered the phone said all the committee’s communications  staffers are already in Maui.
It’s unclear if other committee employees, in addition to communications staff, are also in Maui.
It’s standard practice for taxpayers to cover travel expenses for  congressional committee staffers, but there’s no way to know at this  point how much the trip will cost, unless staffers offer up the  information.
Committee staff declined to answer specific questions about why the  field hearing was scheduled in Maui, nor would they say how many of  their colleagues were there, on their way there, or scheduled to travel  there.





POSTED AUGUST 18, 2011

WHO IS A "LONE WOLF"

You are! O.K. Let me explain. First, there are over 2 million individuals in prison in the U.S., today. I guess every one of them could be a "lone wolf". If we include those who are on parole or probation, that number swells to 7.3 million as of 2009. I guess we could include all of them as potential "lone wolves". There are still more millions of individuals for which there are outstanding warrants for their arrest. Those also could be considered potential "lone wolves". Since the reaction of our government masters is now to conduct random searches of people, listen to millions of phone calls, encourage the general public to report "suspicious" activities, it doesn't take long before all of us are potential "lone wolves".

2 days ago President Obama said that the nation's chief concern should be a "lone wolf" attack. That means you are a target. Let's analyze this. Every day there are millions of crimes committed. (Unfortunately, the worst crimes are being committed by those in government). Many of those crimes are committed by individuals. This is nothing new. We can change the name to "lone wolf", but a rose by any other name is still a rose. Also, using the term "terrorist", changes nothing. A crime is a crime. A criminal is a criminal. That's why we have police.

So what's going on. It's really nothing new. All despots try to make their subjects guilty until proven innocent. They change words. They change terms. They seek to justify totalitarian control by trying to convince you "they" are out to get you and thank God you have the government to protect you. Obama is a tyrant in waiting. He is nothing more than a cheap copy of all the other 2 bit dictators that have polluted our history. If you want to be afraid, be afraid of people like him that have unlimited money and power.

Bruce                     New World Order News


‘Lone wolf’ terror attack greatest threat to US security, says Obama
DNA
August 17, 2011
President Barack Obama has said that a “lone wolf” terror attack  similar to the one in Norway posed the greatest threat to the US  security at the moment, even though his top aides have claimed that  capabilities of al-Qaeda have been considerably degraded.
Obama said there is a risk of terrorist attack on occasion of 10th  anniversary of 9/11, and also did not rule out the likelihood of the  dreaded terror outfit al-Qaeda launching a revenge attack for the  killing of Osama bin Laden.
“The risk of a terrorist attack is always there. And, obviously, on a  seminal event like the 10th anniversary of 9/11, that makes us more  concerned,” the President said in an interview to CNN. “The risk that  we’re especially concerned over right now is the lone wolf terrorist,  somebody with a single weapon being able to carry out wide-scale  massacres of the sort that we saw in Norway recently,”



POSTED AUGUST 17, 2011

GUESS WHAT? TROOPS TO STAY.

Below are various quotes from our government masters regarding the war in Iraq and all of the lies and false promises concerning it. Today, it was announced (Surprise! Surprise!) that American troops may have to stay in Iraq past the latest deadline to realize "Mission Accomplished". Of course our government will have to be asked by our appointed stooges running Iraq. This is much like the East Germans requesting the Soviet Union to invade their country and put their citizens under marshal law. Of course they all want it!

Let's review, shall we? Our President and his minions told all of us in the U.S. that Saddam Hussein had space age weapons he was about to use on the U.S. They said Saddam was developing a nuclear weapon. They said Saddam was buying yellow cake from Niger. They said Saddam was cooperating with Al-Qaeda, All of these statements were lies. Let me repeat. ALL of these statements were lies.

Now 8+ years, thousands of American lies and over 1 million dead Iraqi's later, our troops are still there. Only now they're called diplomats, trainers, contractors or they're in Kuwait or Afghanistan. Isn't it interesting that our government masters put people in jail for lying to them about anything, but lie to us continually, costing lives and nothing happens to them. So to those of you who insist on excusing everything these people do, you get the government you deserve. Enjoy your train ride.

Bruce           New World Order News






"I will promise you this, that if we have not gotten our troops out by the time I am president, it is the first thing I will do. I will get our troops home. We will bring an end to this war. You can take that to the bank. " - Barack Obama Campaign Promise - October 27, 2007

"Let me say this as plainly as I can: By August 31, 2010, our combat mission in Iraq will end," Barack Obama  02/27/09

I am announcing that the American combat mission in Iraq has ended.

Barack Obama September 1, 2010

The Pentagon is officially ending its seven-year combat mission in Iraq on Aug. 31, but the remaining 50,000 U.S. troops will still carry out missions against terrorists and the CIA will continue cooperation with Iraq's now-unified intelligence service. Aug 19, 2010

Under the timeline already established by the White House, all troops will be withdrawn from Iraq by Dec. 31, 2011.

After a string of deadly bombings and shootings in Iraq Monday, the Obama administration again indicated its willingness to keep US troops in the country after a December 31 deadline for their withdrawal. 17 August 2011

POSTED AUGUST 16, 2011

SHE'S BEEN EVERYWHERE -- AND YOU PAID FOR IT

I speaking of queen Michelle, our first lady. Over the past 2 1/2 years President Obama's wife has made the most of being married to the President and sending the bill to you. Her many overseas trips have been legend along with the millions of dollars spent on these trips for lavish banquets, luxury hotels, safaris and designer clothing. Yes, I know, some of this is donated.

It would be outrageous if it ended there, but for Queen Michelle, there is no end. Both she and her husband view the taxpayers of the United States as their own personal ATM. Queen Michelle is not only on constant junkets, but she has hired an entourage of taxpayer assistants to see to her every need, but it gets worse. Queen Michelle had her dog flown to Maine to join her in her hunt for lobsters. O.K. enough!

It is almost routine for me to ask, "What is your line in the sand?" So far, there is none. Americans today will literally put up with anything. Meanwhile, our government masters have taken note of this. They rightly believe they can do anything they want, any time they want. They can steal any amount of money, commit any crime, do unlimited lying and then turn around and order TSA (airport Nazis) to stick their hands down your pants, as if you're the criminal. They won't stop. They will do more. Trust me. They won't stop.

Bruce                    New World Order News



Michelle’s $800,000 African Vacation Adds to Multi-Million Dollar Obama Travel Tab
Posted on June 27, 2011 by Jane Jamison| 2 Comments
 
 
 

How much did U.S. taxpayers shell out for Michelle's mother Marian to shake her booty in Botswana?

 
 
 
While  record numbers of Americans are without jobs, thousands have lost homes  to tornadoes, thousands more are now flooded from homes, farms and  businesses in the Missouri River, and 44 million are on food stamps,  America’s first family is tone-deaf. 

Young couple at shelter for flood victims in Minot

The president golfed twice last weekend, his 74th and 75th  golf games since taking office, while North Dakotans in Minot were  under 8 feet of water.  Obama hasn’t mentioned the Midwest flooding,  even though it’s been a problem for two months.

In two months of flooding, Obama has not visited or even mentioned the problem. He has golfed every weekend

Meanwhile,  Michelle Obama has hired 26 people to wait on her, and is treating  herself lavishly to designer clothes, parties and vacations for herself  and her extended family.  She has just returned from a full week in  Africa with her mother, daughters and other extended family.  Did they  all pay their personal expenses?  Doubtful. Will the mainstream media  comment? Even more doubtful.
Keith Koffler at White House Dossier:

“First  Lady Michelle Obama’s trip to South Africa and Botswana last week cost  taxpayers well over half a million dollars, possibly in the range of  $700,000 or $800,000, according to an analysis by White House Dossier.
Many  of the trip’s expenses cannot be obtained with specificity, including  the cost of local transportation for the first lady, Secret Service  protection, the care and feeding of staffers, and pre-trip advance work  done by administration officials in South Africa.
But it is  possible to estimate some of these costs and put a price tag on one of  the major expenses – her transportation to and from southern Africa and  her trips between cities there.
While the goals of her journey – “youth leadership, education, health and wellness”  in southern Africa, according to the White House – are laudable, many  may question whether such an expensive outreach overseas by the  president’s wife is worthwhile given the threat of the ballooning  federal debt to the economy.
This is particularly true given that  the trip, while featuring many official events, also included tourist  components such as visits to historical landmarks and museums, a  nonworking chance to meet Nelson Mandela that Mrs. Obama described as  “surreal,” and a safari. Mrs. Obama also brought along her mother, her  daughters and two of their cousins – the children of her brother Craig  Robinson.
In a conversation last week with a South African online newspaper, U.S. Embassy Spokeswoman Elizabeth Trudeau made clear that the trip was partially a personal pilgrimage for the first lady.”

By the way, how did Michelle Obama demonstrate “health and wellness” when she told an audience she can’t stop eating French fries?  How did she model health and wellness when she made a special stop the next day to eat even more French fries and fat cakes????

First lady's big fat African lunch bucket: French fries and fat cakes

Let’s review:
There was Michelle’s “girl trip” last summer’s trip to Spain with 40 friends which cost approximately $400,000?  And there was the trip to snarf lobsters and fly the first dog in his own plane to Maine.  The Indian press estimated the Obamas spent $200 million a day  in India and beyond due to the heavy security required.  The Obama trip to South America cost $17 million just for the air travel costs…multiple jumbo jets. 

There  was the two-week $1.5 million Christmas vakay to Hawaii.  The Obamas  chose to stay at a much more expensive private home rather than an Air  Force lodge as other presidents did.  Michelle left early because Barack was still trying to jam some bill down our throats, so that cost at least an extra $100,000.
How about the beer-drinking and ugly designer dresses  trip to the U.K., where despite all the expense and staff, the president still muffed the protocol…..badly? 
 

The British media says the Obamas required $31 million in security arrangements, picked up by British taxpayers? 
The  lapdog media in America haven’t bothered to tally or even ask what the  grand total of all the White House travel, parties, Michelle’s personal  budget and staff, and Obama’s golf.
The blindered-hypocrisy of the  media and liberals over this over-the-top spending in the face of huge  national deficits, joblessness and economic stress is shameful.  What a  different story this would be for a Republican president.  Can you  imagine what a white Republican woman would be labeled by the left and  the media spending so much money on her herself?
Photos Africa trip from Michelle Obama’s Mirror:

Leaving the homeland for home: Flaps up!



POSTED AUGUST 15, 2011

NAT GEO-- GOVERNMENT PROPAGANDA NETWORK

There are some interesting shows on the National Geographic Channel. I enjoy, "Locked up  Abroad". There are a few others, but Nat Geo is joining the ever increasing list of Media Whores in televising pure propaganda garbage fed to them by our government masters. Below is a description of "National Geographic Channel
Remembering 9/11--- The George Bush interview". You will note that there is a poignant picture of King George looking out the window ---PLEASE!

Just to review --- it is impossible: 1) for cell phone calls to be made from a jet plane flying at 500mph from 30,000 feet 2) for steel to melt from jet fuel burning at 1800 degrees maximum 3) for a steel skyscraper (Building 7) to collapse in its' own footprint after being hit by nothing 4) for a plane measuring 125 feet wide crashing into a building, leaving a hole 16 feet in diameter and no debris 5) for 2 passports from the alleged hijackers to fall from an exploding airliner and land on the street in pristine condition. I GUARANTEE YOU, that the Nat Geo Media Whore Network will cover none of this. Please don't waste 1 minute of your time watching this garbage.

Our media continues to shovel garbage on to the airways on a daily basis. Their lies aren't even good. There are very basic questions to all of their fairy tales. Whether it's the non existent Obama birth certificate, the phoney Bin Laden killing, the underwear bomber, the shoe bomber, the 7/7 bombings in England or whatever they shovel out today, one thing is absolutely sure. These people will NEVER, EVER publicly debate these issues. Their response is always ridicule and name calling. So all we can do today, is point that out. If they know so much and have conducted all of these investigations, how come they will not defend them?

Bruce                       New World Order News 

 
 			 			 			 			 			 			 


XUpcoming EpisodesAll Episodes

9/11: Science and Conspiracy 
9/11: Where Were You? 
9/11 Mastermind 
George W. Bush: The 9/11 Interview 
Giuliani's 9/11 
Hunt for Bin Laden 
Inside 9/11: The War Continues 
Inside 9/11: Zero Hour 
Inside Saddam's Reign of Terror 
Inside the Drone War 
Inside the Green Berets 
Pakistan Undercover 


The Liquid Bomb Plot 
Voices of 9/11 
War on America 
Witness: DC 9/11 

Previous PagePrevious PageNext PageNext Page


XUpcoming EpisodesAll Episodes

Inside the Green Berets Aug 21 7P  ct
The Liquid Bomb Plot Aug 21 8P  ct
Hunt for Bin Laden Aug 22 7P  ct
Pakistan Undercover Aug 22 8P  ct
Inside the Drone War Aug 22 9P  ct
Inside 9/11: The War Continues Aug 28 8P  ct
George W. Bush: The 9/11 Interview Aug 28 9P  ct
Giuliani's 9/11 Aug 29 7P  ct
George W. Bush: The 9/11 Interview Aug 29 8P  ct
9/11 Mastermind Aug 29 9P  ct
Voices of 9/11 Aug 30 7P  ct
Witness: DC 9/11 Aug 30 8P  ct


9/11: Where Were You? Aug 30 9P  ct
War on America Aug 31 7P  ct
Inside Saddam's Reign of Terror Aug 31 9P  ct
Inside 9/11: Zero Hour Sep 1 7P  ct
Inside 9/11: The War Continues Sep 1 9P  ct
9/11: Science and Conspiracy Sep 2 7P  ct
9/11: Where Were You? Sep 2 9P  ct
9/11 Mastermind Sep 3 7P  ct
Giuliani's 9/11 Sep 3 8P  ct
George W. Bush: The 9/11 Interview Sep 3 9P  ct
Inside 9/11: The War Continues Sep 11 8P  ct

Previous PagePrevious PageNext PageNext Page
XUpcoming EpisodesAll Episodes

9/11: Science and Conspiracy 
9/11: Where Were You? 
9/11 Mastermind 
George W. Bush: The 9/11 Interview 
Giuliani's 9/11 
Hunt for Bin Laden 
Inside 9/11: The War Continues 
Inside 9/11: Zero Hour 
Inside Saddam's Reign of Terror 
Inside the Drone War 
Inside the Green Berets 
Pakistan Undercover 


The Liquid Bomb Plot 
Voices of 9/11 
War on America 
Witness: DC 9/11 

Previous PagePrevious PageNext PageNext Page


XUpcoming EpisodesAll Episodes

Inside the Green Berets Aug 21 6P  mt
The Liquid Bomb Plot Aug 21 7P  mt
Hunt for Bin Laden Aug 22 6P  mt
Pakistan Undercover Aug 22 7P  mt
Inside the Drone War Aug 22 8P  mt
Inside 9/11: The War Continues Aug 28 7P  mt
George W. Bush: The 9/11 Interview Aug 28 8P  mt
Giuliani's 9/11 Aug 29 6P  mt
George W. Bush: The 9/11 Interview Aug 29 7P  mt
9/11 Mastermind Aug 29 8P  mt
Voices of 9/11 Aug 30 6P  mt
Witness: DC 9/11 Aug 30 7P  mt


9/11: Where Were You? Aug 30 8P  mt
War on America Aug 31 6P  mt
Inside Saddam's Reign of Terror Aug 31 8P  mt
Inside 9/11: Zero Hour Sep 1 6P  mt
Inside 9/11: The War Continues Sep 1 8P  mt
9/11: Science and Conspiracy Sep 2 6P  mt
9/11: Where Were You? Sep 2 8P  mt
9/11 Mastermind Sep 3 6P  mt
Giuliani's 9/11 Sep 3 7P  mt
George W. Bush: The 9/11 Interview Sep 3 8P  mt
Inside 9/11: The War Continues Sep 11 7P  mt

Previous PagePrevious PageNext PageNext Page
XUpcoming EpisodesAll Episodes

9/11: Science and Conspiracy 
9/11: Where Were You? 
9/11 Mastermind 
George W. Bush: The 9/11 Interview 
Giuliani's 9/11 
Hunt for Bin Laden 
Inside 9/11: The War Continues 
Inside 9/11: Zero Hour 
Inside Saddam's Reign of Terror 
Inside the Drone War 
Inside the Green Berets 
Pakistan Undercover 


The Liquid Bomb Plot 
Voices of 9/11 
War on America 
Witness: DC 9/11 

Previous PagePrevious PageNext PageNext Page


XUpcoming EpisodesAll Episodes

Inside the Green Berets Aug 21 8P  pt
The Liquid Bomb Plot Aug 21 9P  pt
Hunt for Bin Laden Aug 22 8P  pt
Pakistan Undercover Aug 22 9P  pt
Inside the Drone War Aug 22 10P  pt
Inside 9/11: The War Continues Aug 28 9P  pt
George W. Bush: The 9/11 Interview Aug 28 10P  pt
Giuliani's 9/11 Aug 29 8P  pt
George W. Bush: The 9/11 Interview Aug 29 9P  pt
9/11 Mastermind Aug 29 10P  pt
Voices of 9/11 Aug 30 8P  pt
Witness: DC 9/11 Aug 30 9P  pt


9/11: Where Were You? Aug 30 10P  pt
War on America Aug 31 8P  pt
Inside Saddam's Reign of Terror Aug 31 10P  pt
Inside 9/11: Zero Hour Sep 1 8P  pt
Inside 9/11: The War Continues Sep 1 10P  pt
9/11: Science and Conspiracy Sep 2 8P  pt
9/11: Where Were You? Sep 2 10P  pt
9/11 Mastermind Sep 3 8P  pt
Giuliani's 9/11 Sep 3 9P  pt
George W. Bush: The 9/11 Interview Sep 3 10P  pt
Inside 9/11: The War Continues Sep 11 9P  pt

Previous PagePrevious PageNext PageNext Page
XUpcoming EpisodesAll Episodes

9/11: Science and Conspiracy 
9/11: Where Were You? 
9/11 Mastermind 
George W. Bush: The 9/11 Interview 
Giuliani's 9/11 
Hunt for Bin Laden 
Inside 9/11: The War Continues 
Inside 9/11: Zero Hour 
Inside Saddam's Reign of Terror 
Inside the Drone War 
Inside the Green Berets 
Pakistan Undercover 


The Liquid Bomb Plot 
Voices of 9/11 
War on America 
Witness: DC 9/11 

Previous PagePrevious PageNext PageNext Page


XUpcoming EpisodesAll Episodes

Inside the Green Berets Aug 21 7P  ak
The Liquid Bomb Plot Aug 21 8P  ak
Hunt for Bin Laden Aug 22 7P  ak
Pakistan Undercover Aug 22 8P  ak
Inside the Drone War Aug 22 9P  ak
Inside 9/11: The War Continues Aug 28 8P  ak
George W. Bush: The 9/11 Interview Aug 28 9P  ak
Giuliani's 9/11 Aug 29 7P  ak
George W. Bush: The 9/11 Interview Aug 29 8P  ak
9/11 Mastermind Aug 29 9P  ak
Voices of 9/11 Aug 30 7P  ak
Witness: DC 9/11 Aug 30 8P  ak


9/11: Where Were You? Aug 30 9P  ak
War on America Aug 31 7P  ak
Inside Saddam's Reign of Terror Aug 31 9P  ak
Inside 9/11: Zero Hour Sep 1 7P  ak
Inside 9/11: The War Continues Sep 1 9P  ak
9/11: Science and Conspiracy Sep 2 7P  ak
9/11: Where Were You? Sep 2 9P  ak
9/11 Mastermind Sep 3 7P  ak
Giuliani's 9/11 Sep 3 8P  ak
George W. Bush: The 9/11 Interview Sep 3 9P  ak
Inside 9/11: The War Continues Sep 11 8P  ak

Previous PagePrevious PageNext PageNext Page
XUpcoming EpisodesAll Episodes

9/11: Science and Conspiracy 
9/11: Where Were You? 
9/11 Mastermind 
George W. Bush: The 9/11 Interview 
Giuliani's 9/11 
Hunt for Bin Laden 
Inside 9/11: The War Continues 
Inside 9/11: Zero Hour 
Inside Saddam's Reign of Terror 
Inside the Drone War 
Inside the Green Berets 
Pakistan Undercover 


The Liquid Bomb Plot 
Voices of 9/11 
War on America 
Witness: DC 9/11 

Previous PagePrevious PageNext PageNext Page


XUpcoming EpisodesAll Episodes

Inside the Green Berets Aug 21 6P  hi
The Liquid Bomb Plot Aug 21 7P  hi
Hunt for Bin Laden Aug 22 6P  hi
Pakistan Undercover Aug 22 7P  hi
Inside the Drone War Aug 22 8P  hi
Inside 9/11: The War Continues Aug 28 7P  hi
George W. Bush: The 9/11 Interview Aug 28 8P  hi
Giuliani's 9/11 Aug 29 6P  hi
George W. Bush: The 9/11 Interview Aug 29 7P  hi
9/11 Mastermind Aug 29 8P  hi
Voices of 9/11 Aug 30 6P  hi
Witness: DC 9/11 Aug 30 7P  hi


9/11: Where Were You? Aug 30 8P  hi
War on America Aug 31 6P  hi
Inside Saddam's Reign of Terror Aug 31 8P  hi
Inside 9/11: Zero Hour Sep 1 6P  hi
Inside 9/11: The War Continues Sep 1 8P  hi
9/11: Science and Conspiracy Sep 2 6P  hi
9/11: Where Were You? Sep 2 8P  hi
9/11 Mastermind Sep 3 6P  hi
Giuliani's 9/11 Sep 3 7P  hi
George W. Bush: The 9/11 Interview Sep 3 8P  hi
Inside 9/11: The War Continues Sep 11 7P  hi

Previous PagePrevious PageNext PageNext Page
XUpcoming EpisodesAll Episodes

9/11: Science and Conspiracy 
9/11: Where Were You? 
9/11 Mastermind 
George W. Bush: The 9/11 Interview 
Giuliani's 9/11 
Hunt for Bin Laden 
Inside 9/11: The War Continues 
Inside 9/11: Zero Hour 
Inside Saddam's Reign of Terror 
Inside the Drone War 
Inside the Green Berets 
Pakistan Undercover 


The Liquid Bomb Plot 
Voices of 9/11 
War on America 
Witness: DC 9/11 

Previous PagePrevious PageNext PageNext Page


 
George W. Bush: The 9/11 Interview
Remind Me  Sunday August 28 10P  Sunday August 28 9P  Sunday August 28 8P  Sunday August 28 10P  Sunday August 28 9P  Sunday August 28 8P    







Read more: http://channel.nationalgeographic.com/channel/series/remembering-9-11/6683/Overview#tab-Photos/4#ixzz1V8OjrxAM


National Geographic Channel presents George W. Bush: The 9/11 Interview,  a world premiere documentary that reveals exclusive, first-person  insight into the former president's experience following the terrorist  attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.  In the most in-depth on-camera interview he  has ever given on the subject, President Bush recalls what he was  thinking and feeling and what drove the real-time, life-or-death  decisions he faced in the first minutes, hours and days after the most  lethal terrorist attacks ever on U.S. soil.  Hear in unprecedented,  intimate detail what he grappled with as both commander in chief, and as  a man concerned for his family and fellow citizens.  George W. Bush: The 9/11 Interview  also takes viewers behind the scenes with extensive archival footage  and exclusive materials directly from his library that open a new window  into his personal experiences during that historic day that changed the  face of America, and the world, forever.




Read more: http://channel.nationalgeographic.com/channel/series/remembering-9-11/6683/Overview#ixzz1V8LvohGd



POSTED AUGUST 12, 2011

LIKE HEALTHY FOOD? YOU'RE A TERRORIST!

It's been almost 10 years since elements from our government generated the events of 911 that resulted in today's police state. King George said shortly after that event, "you're either with us, or you're with the terrorists". We, and some others,  warned way back then, that this was a setup leading to a central government police state and had nothing to do with Al Qaeda. Now, I guess we are all "with the terrorists". 

Today, we read hundreds of stories about our government masters raiding health food stores, shutting down children's lemonade stands, restricting the sale of vitamin C, sticking their hands down your pants at the airport, arresting anyone making videos of illegal police brutality, conducting random searches of vehicles on the highways, listening to millions of phone calls, arresting anyone protesting at political gatherings, police stealing cash from motorists on the road --- need more?

Even so, millions of brain dead Americans will excuse ANYTHING their government masters do. They are in the exact same mold of those that willingly got onto trains to the Nazi death camps. So, let's review. Here is what our government masters say is good for you: Mercury in vaccines, GMO foods, MSG, Aspartame, irradiated foods, meat coated with virus', all prescription drugs, fluoride, chlorine, bovine growth hormones, radiation baths at the airport, mind altering drugs for our children, lots and lots of moronic bureaucrats ---O.K. that's enough.

Her are some of the things our government masters say are harmful: Raw milk, natural foods, all vitamins, all mineral additives, all natural cancer cures, small family farms, small mom and pop businesses, love of the U.S. Constitution, any type of gun, confronting a government master, being a Christian, free speech without government control.

Bruce                       New World Order News



Hijacked Regulatory Agencies Do the Bidding Of Big Ag in the War on Natural Food
Brandon Turbeville
Infowars.com
August 10, 2011

With recent headlines regarding SWAT team attacks on wholesome dairies  and raw milk producers, it might be of some relevance to discuss the  level of corruption that exists amongst our own hijacked government  regulatory agencies and the international food corporations they are  tasked with policing. Indeed, when one is aware of the revolving door  that exists between agencies like the FDA and large corporations like  Monsanto, it is easier to see how such fascist food raids can be  launched and subsequently justified.
A clear and relatively recent example of the influence and pressure  that is often exerted on regulatory agencies can be seen in the debate  over rBGH. Believe it or not, there was once a time when consumers were  aware that dangerous genetically modified growth hormones in their milk  was something that was potentially harmful to their health. These  consumers, unlike those in current times, began to engage in a practice  that, in 2011, might be considered revolutionary or, in the eyes of the  mainstream media and DHS, possibly even domestic terrorism — they simply  refused to buy the adulterated product.
This consumer boycott resulted in, at the very  least, a potential for the loss of large sums of money for Monsanto.  Thus their spin machine, as well as the infiltration agents they  employed within the various regulatory agencies, kicked their efforts  into high gear.
As a result, Monsanto did its best to convince regulatory agencies  such as the FDA and the FTC to make it illegal for any dairy to make the  claim that its products were rBGH-free.[1]
While these agencies did not fully bend to Monsanto’s request, the  FDA did devise a policy by which all claims of rBGH-free milk were  deemed misleading and, if made, were to be accompanied by a disclaimer  that reads “No significant difference has been shown between milk  derived from rBST-treated and non rBST-treated cows.”[2]
Almost immediately after the FDA released the document stating its  new policy, Monsanto filed suit against two dairy farms that had labeled  their milk as “rBGH-free.” The FDA rushed to the aid of companies like  Monsanto and sent warning letters to several other dairies telling them  that they were in violation of the Food Drug and Cosmetic Act for  misbranding.
Monsanto continued to lobby the FDA and FTC arguing that allowing the  appearance of any rBGH related labeling on milk was unfairly damaging  its business. [3]
When these attempts proved unsuccessful, the companies changed their  tactics and moved to the state level. The most widely publicized  battleground was in the state of Pennsylvania. Here they found an ally  in Dennis Wolff, the state Secretary of Agriculture. Wolff took it upon  himself to ban all labeling of dairy products that were free of rBGH  such as “hormone-free,” “rBGH-free,” or “rBST-free.” [4]  His argument  was that since the FDA claimed they could find no difference between  non-rBGH treated milk and milk that was treated with the hormone, the  marketing of dairy products as “rBGH-free” is false and misleading.[5]
Although only implemented at the state level, this would have had  nationwide repercussions. Because it would be too confusing and costly  for many dairy producers to create separate packaging for only one  state, this would effectively remove the non-rBGH label from the all the  national and Pennsylvanian brands.[6]
After Wolff’s behavior became widely known, public outcry forced  Pennsylvania Governor Ed Rendell to put a halt to the destruction of the  1st Amendment and the right of the consumer to know what he/she is  purchasing.
Yet, although the initial attack on free speech was halted, Rendell  supported the position that any rBGH-free claims must be accompanied by  the FDA disclaimer.
Illinois was actually the first state to place a ban on rBGH-free  labeling.[7] The ice cream giant Ben & Jerry’s, Stoneyfield Farm,  and Organic Valley Farms all challenged the law by filing a lawsuit  against the Illinois Department of Public Health in a US District Court.  However, after a settlement, these companies could only label their  products with a statement that says “We oppose rBGH. The family farmers  who supply our milk pledge not to treat their cows with rBGH.”[8] This  statement must also be accompanied by the FDA disclaimer.[9]
Also, when the product includes any ingredients other than milk, such  as dried milk or milk chocolate, the label must include another  statement that says, “Not all suppliers of our other ingredients can  promise that the milk they use comes from untreated cows.”[10]
On a state level the battle is still raging. Pennsylvania and  Illinois are not the only states to adopt or at least attempt to adopt  draconian and unconstitutional laws protecting giant corporations and  damaging public health.  Some states have adopted laws based on the  FDA’s own guidelines which are tyrannical enough. Utah, for example has  done just that.
However, other states such as Ohio take the guidelines further. The  law in Ohio now dictates the size, type, and location of the FDA  disclaimer.
States like Pennsylvania (mentioned earlier), Missouri, and Indiana  have attempted to go even further and ban rBGH labeling altogether.[11]
Fortunately, due to public outcry, the legislation in all three of  these states has not passed. Yet the battle is not over. States all over  the country are introducing legislation aimed at protecting large  agri-business such as Monsanto. Kansas is the most recent state to do  so, and it is almost certain that other states will follow.[12]
Considering the level of control held over regulatory agencies and  governments by corporations like Monsanto, there is little doubt that  this particular issue has merely faded into the background.
Notes:
[1] Smith, Jeffrey. “You’re Appointing Who? Please Obama, Say It’s Not So!” July 23, 2009. http://www.huffingtonpost.com/jeffrey-smith/youre-appointing-who-plea_b_243810.html  Accessed May 24, 2010.
[2] “Voluntary Labeling of Milk and Milk Products From Cows That Have  Not Been Treated With Recombinant Bovine Somatotropin.” Federal  Register, 59 FR 6279, February 10, 1994. http://www.fda.gov/Food/GuidanceComplianceRegulatoryInformation/GuidanceDocuments/FoodLabelingNutrition/ucm059036.htm  Accessed May 24, 2010.
[3] “rBGH:How Artificial Hormones Damage the Dairy Industry and And Endanger Public Health.” Foodandwaterwatch.org. June, 2009. http://www.foodandwaterwatch.org/food/report/rbgh-how-artificial-hormones-damage-the-dairy-industry-and-endanger-public-health-2/rbgh-how-artificial-hormones-damage-the-dairy-industry-and-endanger-public-health-1/   Accessed May 24, 2010.
[4] Gutierrez, David. “Consumer Outrage May Reverse Pennsylvania’s rBGH-Free Dairy Label Censorship Sham.” Naturalnews.com. http://www.naturalnews.com/023575.html  Accessed May 24, 2010.
[5] “rBGH:How Artificial Hormones Damage the Dairy Industry and And  Endanger Public Health.” Foodandwaterwatch.org. June, 2009.  Accessed  May 24, 2010.
[6] Smith, Jeffrey. “You’re Appointing Who? Please Obama, Say It’s Not So!” July 23, 2009. http://www.huffingtonpost.com/jeffrey-smith/youre-appointing-who-plea_b_243810.html  Accessed May 24, 2010.
[7] “rBGH:How Artificial Hormones Damage the Dairy Industry and And  Endanger Public Health.” Foodandwaterwatch.org. June, 2009.  Accessed  May 24, 2010.
[8] “Settlement Protects Illinois Consumers From Misleading Food  Labels,” Illinois Department of Health News Release. August 14, 1997.  http://www.idph.state.il.us/public/press97/ben.htm
[9] Ibid.
[10] Ibid.
[11] “rBGH:How Artificial Hormones Damage the Dairy Industry and And Endanger Public Health.” Foodandwaterwatch.org. June, 2009.
See Also:
Rathke, Lisa. “Ben & Jerry’s Opposes Monsanto’s Move in Several  States to Ban rBGH-Free Labels.” Associated Press, February 5, 2008.  Reprinted by Organic Consumer’s Association. http://www.organicconsumers.org/articles/article_10095.cfm
[12] Morris, Owen. “New Kansas Bill Restricts rBGH Labeling.” The Pitch. 3/23/09. Reprinted by Organic Consumers Association. http://www.organicconsumers.org/articles/article_17366.cfm  Accessed May 24, 2010.
Brandon Turbeville is an author out of Mullins,  South Carolina. He has a Bachelor’s Degree from Francis Marion  University where he earned the Pee Dee Electric Scholar’s Award as an  undergraduate. He has had numerous articles published dealing with a  wide variety of subjects including health, economics, and civil  liberties. He also the author of Codex Alimentarius – The End of Health Freedom, 7 Real Conspiracies and Five Sense Solutions. 


POSTED AUGUST 11, 2011

THEY HATE US FOR OUR FREEDOM

That is the standard mantra from government spokesmen when discussing the so-called war on terror. In the article below, several pictures have been posted on the latest NATO bombing of civilian targets in Libya.

Instead of being a nation outraged by hundreds of incidents of civilians being blown to bits by the actions of our military, our populace alternates between mindless cliches praising anyone who wears a military uniform for "fighting for freedom" and arguing with friends about the latest sporting event. Many in our nation think they can avoid all responsibility by ignoring carnage as long as it is half way across the world. Meanwhile, we'll continue to cheer whenever the military decides to have a parade comprised of combat veterans. There is nothing heroic about these military attacks.

It has been said that America will cease to be great when it is no longer good. I'm sorry, my Christian friends, there is no justification for murdering innocent civilians simply because we can. Our military has done it Iraq, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Libya, Yemen, Sudan and Somalia. Some think those who willingly kill innocent people will limit their blood lust to foreign lands and exempt the USA. Ask those in the former Soviet Union and Nazi Germany if that was true. Those who do not learn from the lessons of the past are doomed to repeat them.

Bruce                       New World Order News






BREAKING NEWS: NATO Massacres of Civilians Aimed at "Cleansing" the Libyan People's Resistance
Photographic Evidence of NATO War Crimes

by  Mahdi Darius  Nazemroaya




 



Global Research, August 10, 2011




 




 Email this article to a friend
 Print this article



 




TRIPOLI,  Global Research, August 10, 2011 – The North Atlantic Treaty  Organization (NATO) conducted intensive attacks on Libyan civilians in  the night of August 8 and in the early hours of August 9, 2011 from  approximately 2:00 a.m. to 4:00 a.m. EET. 

            Civilians in Tripoli and many other cities in Libya were bombed indiscriminately by NATO. 

            A  large number of casualties occurred in the city of Zliten, in the  district of Misurata. In Zliten, 85 people were killed including 33  children, 32 women, and 20 men as a result of NATO’s deliberate  targeting of residential areas and civilian infrastructure. Many of the  injured civilian victims are in critical condition and near death. 

            Zliten  has been under constant NATO bombardment for several days. The recent  NATO attacks started at about 11:30 p.m. EET on August 8, 2011. At least  7 civilian homes belonging to local farmers were destroyed, killing  entire families. In all 20 families were the targets of the NATO  bombings. 

            The images below pertain to destroyed farm houses in Majer, near Zliten. 






















            Destroyed farm house in Majer, near Zliten. Copyright of all photos above. Matthew Ozanon 2011


            Colonel  Roland Lavoie, NATO’s official military spokesperson for Operation  Unified Protector, confirmed that NATO bombed Zliten at 11:45 p.m. on  August 8, 2011 and 2:34 a.m. on August 9, 2011. 

            In a second  round of bombing, NATO targeted the same homes once more when local  residents had arrived to the rescue of those who had been bombed. 

            Dismembered  bodies were recovered from the ruble throughout the day. According to a  Libyan eyewitness, a pregnant woman was killed with her dead unborn  child exposed out of her torn body. 

Media Disinformation 

            The  only members of the international press that reported the damage of the  bombings in detail were Russia Today (RT), TeleSUR, Chinese Central  Television (CCTV), and independent journalists. 

            CNN was present taking footage, but essentially released nothing and distorted the facts.(See photos below) 


            Dead civilians in Zliten Hospital. CNN cameraman in background. Copyright, Matthew Ozanon 2011


            Dead civilians in Zliten Hospital.  CNN camerman filming. Copyright, Matthew Ozanon 2011

            Many of the journalists from NATO countries also held meetings on how to disseminate the news.

            NATO  claims categorically that the areas bombed were “legitimate” military  targets and that there is no evidence of civilian casualties. 

            Colonel  Lavoie stated that NATO had solid intelligence which confirmed that the  farm houses were “military bases.” This statement is false and in total  contradiction with realities on the ground including photographic and  film evidence (see the photographs below). 

            Areas in Zliten and  Majer (Mager) were bombed by NATO for strategic reasons. The bombing of  civilian areas is tied to the planning of NATO’s offensive against  Tripoli. 

            The Libyan clans in these areas have made it clear that  they would fight the Transitional Council should its forces try to move  westward against Tripoli from their position in Misurata. NATO  deliberately bombed these areas “to clear the way” towards Tripoli. 

            Thousands of people also came to the funerals of the victims of the NATO attacks. 

            Jamahiraya  Satellite Channel was also bombed by NATO. This was part of NATO’s  efforts to contain information from coming out of Libya regarding the  realities of the war. 

            NATO is running out of steam and the Transitional Council is near collapse. 

            NATO’s  killing of civilians is intended to force the Libyan population into  surrendering. The “Responsibility to Protect” is an utter shame. A few  days earlier NATO left another boatload of migrants and refugees die in  the Mediterranean Sea. 

            HRW has sent a team to Tripoli from its  head office in New York, which has pushed for a settlement between the  Benghazi-based Transitional Council and the Libyan government. Although  independent, Human Rights Watch (HRW) is known to liaise with the U.S.  State Department. 

            A concrete factory and a Libyan cultural  centre in Al-Khams were also bombed by NATO which has also announced  that it will attack civilian sites.

Mahdi Darius Nazemroaya reporting from Tripoli is a Research Associate of the Centre for Research on Globalization (CRG). 









POSTED AUGUST 10, 2011

HITLER WILL SAVE YOU

I can understand why our government schools teach almost no history. Teaching history to our youth would reveal the sinister plots governments in the past used towards their subjects. During the 1920's and early 1930's, Germany had deteriorated into anarchy. Political groups as well as organized thugs reigned terror upon the German people in the streets of their nation. This terminated with the burning of the Reichstag on February 27, 1933.

Adolph Hitler used these events to appeal to the fear of the German people. He promised to bring peace and order to the streets of Germany. He would get control of the Bolsheviks and other terrorists. On March 23, 1933, the Reichstag passed the "Law for Removing Distress for People and Reich". This solidified dictatorial control of Hitler and his National Socialists.

The article below covers the same mentality from leaders in England. It has been in THEIR interest to allow or even create the same circumstances used by previous governments like the NAZIS to take over the nation and its' people. Through all of this rioting in England, the police have been largely absent in their disarmed nation. Most would agree if anyone tried to attack the homes or property of the royal masters, they would be shot dead. So look for the same old scam. You won't read in your high school history books, but it is history just the same. Now, history is about to repeat itself.

Bruce                                New World Order News


Knee Jerk Calls For Army On London Streets To “Shoot Looters On Sight”
One in three want live ammunition used on rioters

Steve Watson
Infowars.com
Aug 10, 2011
The riots in London and now elsewhere in the UK  are being used by  some as an excuse to call for a full on police state crackdown  complete  with curfews, martial law and the army roaming the streets killing   people.
The most despicable of these drooling nonsensical  knee jerk calls  comes from Conservative MEP Roger Helmer, who suggested via his  twitter  account yesterday that it was “Time to get tough. Bring in the Army.   Shoot looters and arsonists on sight.”

 
When other twitter users and reporters called  Helmer out on his comments, he tweeted “Let’s try water cannon/plastic  rounds first. But if the police lose control completely, tougher measures are  called for.”
Thankfully, the British government has so far  dismissed such calls,  with the Conservative party declaring “We totally  dissociate ourselves  from these comments.”
After initially suggesting that the option of using the  army was being considered, U.K. Home Secretary Theresa May later announced that the government would not take such extreme measures, with  legal experts suggesting armed forces on the streets should be a last resort.
The rush to eviscerate freedom completely in the  UK hasn’t ended there, however.
Several other Tory MPs repeated the same ill considered calls for  martial law.
UKIP MEPs Gerard Batten and Nigel Farage also  called for the  military to be deployed in London to crush the rioters and  institute a  full fledged police state and martial law.
“I think the police have been out numbered… I  think the point has  come where we have to call in the armed forces.” Batten told  RT.
“Lets get our troops back into this country and  put them on the  streets supporting the police in order to crush this criminal   insurrection.” he added.
Batten then suggested that “political correctness”  was the  overriding factor preventing the use of plastic bullets and water   cannons, as well as soldiers on the streets.






UKIP  leader Farage made similar comments, noting “We’re not sending  out a strong  enough signal… I would have thought the logical thing to  do was to call the  army in.”
Even celebrities have begun calling for the army  to be deployed, with England football player Rio Ferdinand leading  the charge.

 
According to a YouGov poll, a third of the British population wants to see live  ammunition used on rioters in the streets. That’s right, just spray  them with bullets for instant justice.
Although the poll was conducted for The Sun, the  biggest selling  tabloid newspaper in the UK, YouGov is a credible source, and is   routinely acclaimed as the country’s most accurate opinion pollster.
The results of the poll betray the frightening  mind set of a certain large portion of the population.
77% want the army on the streets, 82% want  curfews, and 90% want water cannons.
This kind of knee jerk reactionary opinion is a  direct consequence  of the continuing erosion of what little remains of our  freedoms. It is  now considered perfectly reasonable by some elected officials,  and a  huge portion of the population to call for complete militarization of  law  enforcement and shoot to kill policing in the wake of civil unrest.
Meanwhile, the police, having been ordered to stand back and do nothing for three nights, are now facing full on warfare between rioters and vigilante groups trying to protect their  communities in the absence of any order.
All the while the core economic root causes are  ignored and the  elite, who have manufactured this situation for their own  destructive  gain, sit back and cackle as the population of the country adopts a   gang mentality and descends into full on class and race warfare.
——————————————————————


POSTED AUGUST 9, 2011

DISARMED BRITAIN DESCENDS INTO 3 DAYS OF RIOTS

I've spent the last hour reading published comments on the article below. It is obvious that our society is descending into chaos. It has to be that way as governments world wide, are collapsing  under the weight of their own fat. There will be no solutions coming from our government masters for the problems of the economy, the wars, the loss of jobs, the decline in education, the crumbling infrastructure and the increasing police state. Government no longer works, it only controls and not very well at that.

So we have 3 days of riots in Britain. Some say they're racially motivated. Some say it's controlled by gangs. Some say it's frustration on the part of those suffering due to economic conditions. They are all correct. People are angry for a wide variety of reasons. It is not their right, however, to violently attack others. In England, their government masters have not only disarmed the public, they have made it illegal to defend yourself. Predators always attack the weakest. A disarmed individual is a victim in waiting.

In the past, I have recommended we stop cooperating with our government masters. I know it's easier said than done, but if you think the government police are here to protect you, you are dreaming. In the old Soviet Union, people NEVER called the police. They rightly felt they could deal with individual situations far better than the police. As we follow the inevitable slide now being experienced in Britain, take measures to feed, clothe and protect yourself. No one cares like you do.

Bruce                       New World Order News



The Rioting Underclass: Product of a Diseased Culture
Pressure from above, pressure from below; It’s about  eviscerating the middle class by manipulating them to demand their own  enslavement
Paul Joseph Watson
Infowars.com
Tuesday, August 9, 2011
The riots that have gripped London and swept other major cities in  the UK are  the product of a diseased culture that leads to violence and  mayhem which  ultimately only serves to benefit the ruling elite in its  bid to eviscerate the  middle class by manipulating them to demand  their own enslavement.



Firstly, anyone who truly believes that the  rioters are burning and  looting to protest any legitimate grievances, at least  ones that they  are consciously aware of, needs their head examining.
A  BBC video clip  features audio of a group of drunk teenage girls describing  how fun it  is to engage in wanton violence and thieving. In a transparent and   moronic attempt to justify their actions, the girls begin babbling about  “the  government….conservatives or whatever….I don’t know,” before  responding to a  question about why they are attacking local residents  of their own community by  snorting, “It’s the rich people, the people  that have got businesses and that’s  why all of this happened because of  rich people.”
Those “rich people” include a local family-owned  furniture store in Croydon that survived two world wars yet has now been  burned to the ground, a  charity shop that raises revenue for the elderly, and a cat rescue center based in Enfield, amongst scores of other homes, charities and small businesses  owned by innocent and far from “rich” people.
To claim that these disaffected youths are the  vanguard of some  organic revolutionary movement is completely asinine. If this  is a  genuine backlash against the establishment, why are the mobs not   congregating around Downing Street, the Houses of Parliament or  Buckingham  Palace, the real culprits of Britain’s economic degradation.  Why instead are  they busy filling trolleys full of tennis shoes,  mobile phones, along with  plentiful supplies of booze and cigarettes  from tiny local off-licenses?
The rioters are composed predominantly of  nihilistic, aggressive,  vapid and intellectually castrated youths that have come  to represent  the very term “broken Britain”.
This is like a bad zombie movie – it’s the rise of  the idiots. The  plague started in Tottenham. It rapidly spread to other areas of   London, and soon the hordes were rampaging around major cities  nationwide. But  these zombies weren’t scavenging for brains, they were  in search of JD Sports  chav-wear, 40 inch TVs and iPads. The police  stood by and watched. The petrified  public welcomed troops on the  streets, curfews, more surveillance and control  with open arms. Thanks a  lot, idiots.
The cause of this mayhem cannot be traced to any  legitimate  political grievance, it is almost entirely the product of a diseased   culture, fostered by multinational corporations and the  celebrity-obsessed  entertainment industry, that brainwashes young  people to aspire to lifestyles  they can never possibly attain.
The social decline of young people becomes a  self-fulfilling  prophecy as a result of constant media fascination with  demonizing  youngsters and presenting them with a putrid diet of “heroes,”  vacuous  footballers and drug-addled musicians, whose behavior makes   impressionable kids think that life revolves around being constantly  trashed,  engaging in amoral sexual conquests and proving their manhood  by pointless  displays of animal-like aggression.
MTV-manufactured rap icons, movies and video games  have trained an  entire generation of disadvantaged kids to grow up as wannabe   gangsters, marauding around town with their jeans half-way down their  thighs in  huge mobs intimidating the public. Rampant consumerism is  also to blame.  Deprived kids on benefits cannot afford the iPods and  laptops they are told they  must own to be accepted by their peers, so  an opportunity like this cannot be  wasted. As  the Guardian reports today,  “Where we used to be defined by what we did, now  we are defined by  what we buy. These big stores are in the business of tempting  [the  consumer] and then suddenly these people find they can just walk into  the  shop and have it all.”
This army of Clockwork Orange-style droogs are  then played off  against the general public who, suitably terrified by the  media’s  incessant hyping of the problem, openly welcome troops on the streets,   more surveillance, curfews and whatever else is necessary ‘just to keep  us  safe’.
But if the last few nights have proven nothing  else, they have  proven that the police and the authorities cannot keep us safe.  Almost  every eyewitness who described the violence and looting said the police   sat back and did nothing.
The establishment only benefits from allowing the  chaos to spread  because the call from the public for a more brutal response gets  louder  and louder. Now  Parliament has been recalled  for one day to ensure the opportunity to pass  more draconian  legislation that will only impact law-abiding people is not  passed up.
This is how the middle class is habitually  manipulated to support  the very police state that is ultimately used to oppress  the middle  class itself. It’s also a perfect example of pressure from below –  the  cultural cultivation of an underclass of yobs who are let loose by the   system to generate the crisis it needs to clamp down with an iron fist.
We all need to wake up and realize we are being  played off against  each other by an establishment that craves the kind of  pointless  rioting we have seen over the last three nights, because it creates  the  perfect pretext for the establishment to entrench and expand its power  in  the name of safety and security.


POSTED AUGUST 8, 2011

BIN LADEN RAID SEALS, KILLED

Yes, we have another convenient series of deaths. Back in Early May, our President and the accomplices in the main stream media, announced that they raided Osama Bin Laden's compound in Pakistan, killed him, loaded him on to a helicopter, dropped him on to a Navy ship and threw his body into the ocean. Yeah, I know!

Back then, I and many others said this story was ridiculous --- a total fraud, from beginning to end. One of the suggestions I made then , was to interview those involved in the raid. Of course, our government masters refused this suggestion made by independent reporters. Then, we had the interview of a Pakistani man, who lived in the area of the raid. He stated that one of the raiding helicopters blew up upon take off. (I guess there won't be any interviews from those in that helicopter. Saturday, another helicopter was destroyed in a crash, which reportedly was carrying the remaining 20 seals who survived the Bin Laden raid. (I guess they also won't be doing any talking. 

One of the greatest mysteries of our time is what is going through the minds of  the U.S. military forces on the front lines? It is public record that the wars are based on lies. It is public record the President started another war (Libya) by himself without the approval of Congress. As of today, we have reports that most, if not all, of those Navy Seals supposedly involved in the Osama Bin Laden raid, have been killed. Is this not twisted? Does it make sense to die for this? The only way those psycho-paths, who control our government can be stopped is for you, in the military, to stop. It should be very obvious to all, that our government masters view military personnel as being disposable. Knowingly volunteering to become human toilet paper is not courageous. It's stupid.

Bruce                         New World Order News



Breaking News:  “Bin Laden” Heroes Probably Murdered to Keep Them Quiet
1.2KShare
Some Possibly Killed in Abbottabad Helicopter Crash Months Before
 
By Gordon Duff, Senior Editor
 
Today 31 NATO troops, 20 of them Navy Seals from the Osama  bin Laden operation died in what is reported as a helicopter crash in  Afghanistan.  
The chances of this story being true is almost nil.  The  chances of this being a staged coverup is over 80%.  We believe these  people were murdered to silence them.  This is why.
We have solid information on two areas:

Osama bin Laden died in 2001 as an active CIA employee and his body  was recovered in Afghanistan and taken to “the sand box.”  We were told  it was frozen.  We have so much verification from this, CIA, ISI, US  military and top officials.  I have a direct confirmation from Bin  Laden’s CIA handler who I grilled mercilessly on this.
The Abbottabad operation involved numerous American deaths,  witnessed, bodies all over, a helicopter crash. (suppressed translated  TV interview below)  These bodies were recovered by land vehicle from  Islamabad and there was NO “successful” bin Laden operation of any  kind.  There was and has been a CIA safe house in Abbotabad where terror  suspects were stored for years.

This gave the US several areas of severe vulnerability.  Generally,  Navy Seals are the best people in the world at keeping their mouths  shut, these are real team players, as the term “Seal Team” belies.

We at VT were informed that the bin Laden operation was  staged at this time, a theatrical farce, to cover the exit of Secretary  Gates, the move by former CIA Director Leon Panetta into the DOD as  Secretary of Defense and to stem any heroic claims by new CIA Director  Petraeus of killing the long dead Osama bin Laden, the long frozen CIA  operative.

Petraeus is a possible presidential contender and had to be denied  this “gift from heaven,” a fast track to the oval office for sure.

Will We Ever Know What Happened?

Again, I remind you, I went over specific meetings on bin Laden with  his handlers, getting every last detail.  I have watched what has gone  on, the continuing need to vilify a long dead top CIA operative to  provide residual cover for the Bush administration….
The reason?  Bush and his cronies are all facing charges of war  crimes, not just in minor jurisdictions but heading for the ICC, putting  them on the dock with Gaddafi ( a far less harmful character).
As for the timing of this incident?  This we will work on.  What we  can easily surmise is that some of the dead have been dead since their  bodies were taken away from the helicopter crash site in Abbotabad.
Who would order such a thing?  We are going to have to wait but we  are going to find out.  However, we expected this, the timing is exactly  as predicted.
HOW VT TRIED TO SAVE THEM
When the phony Abbotbad operation came out, I immediately understood  what happened.  I also saw much potential good from it other than the  tragedy of the dead Americans from the crash.  I wrote of this and see  their deaths as more heroic than many recognize.

They died to erase for all time remnants of the Bush era  fairly tale of badguy and evildoer Osama bin Laden.  Enough good men had  died chasing a ghost who lived only in phony video and audio tapes by  “Bin Laden Studios” in Tel Aviv and in the continual “boogeyman”  rhetoric of professional fearmongers.

Not long afterward, Secretary of Defense Leon Panetta, another able  public servant announced the near defeat of Al Qaeda, another Bush  fairly tale.

Al Qaeda has never existed, there are no magic worldwide  terror conspiracies other than those run by governments.  There are  several of those and I have written extensively on these.  Google will  help you with this if you are curious.

When VT saw why the government staged this, we saw we could accomplish two things:

We could simply report the truth for those willing to believe it, something we believe is the right thing to do.
We could also support the United States in a very real way, knowing  Pakistan would weather this crisis, timed, in some ways, as a face  saving move in response to the embarrassing Raymond Davis affair.  I  believed if the truth came out, clear enough for insiders, intel and  miliary for sure, to understand that we knew and other insiders knew,  there would be no reason to “clean house” afterward, to stage a coverup  and get rid of any involved.


Abbotabad - How Many Died Here?

I had felt that we had provided cover for the Seal Team, we hadn’t  trashed them, we acknowledged the dead at Abbotabad where no one else  bothered, this is our job as fellow members of America’s military forces  (current and former).
More importantly, we got out word, I certainly did enough radio and  TV on this, enough that, for anyone who care, the “truth was out there.”
This is all we could do but I hoped it would stem a need for covering  tracks.  After all, anyone leaking real information on the operation  would only seem like they had gotten it from me and I put it out there  in such a manner that I allowed room to be “debunked.”
I do this to protect myself but I really was thinking of them.  These  are great guys, Seals are among the best people on earth.  The Seal and  Special Forces communities are, of the military groups in the US, some  of the finest people I know.
They also help cover my “behind,” which I appreciate.

This is just too obvious, too brazen.  I can’t imagine it  started at the White House or even cabinet level but maybe I am  deluding myself.  Bin Laden was all about the election.

After the bond collapse and credit disaster yesterday, anything  threatening President Obama’s reelection is seen, by some, as a threat  to America’s financial survival.  This debt crisis is a bigger threat to  the US than a Japanese invasion in 1942 would have been.
You may not see it that way and you certainly cant get out your hunting rifle to fix it. (Don’t be a sap, kill a Jap!)

Osama in Better Days

Someone had gotten to someone.  My best guess and this is a guess…an  expose’ by the mainstream media, perhaps Murdoch, another guess,  conjecture I admit, regarding the farce at Abbottabad, information  possibly gotten through spying, bribery and blackmail, threatened to  take down Obama.
With Murdoch’s good friend and “monkeyboy,” Netanyahu ‘on the ropes,”  with crowds marching in Israel’s streets demanding his ouster, we have  more timing to factor in.
The bin Laden killing, the third rate drama of capturing an unarmed  frozen dead guy and throwing him into the ocean had probably become an  albatross around certain high ranking necks.
Norway was no accident, it was a warning too.  It has been  containerized, just as the Murdoch espionage issue is now “poor Rupert  and the pie thrower.”
These Americans are casualties in a game, one like 9/11, sacrificial pawns, like Britain’s 7/7, all lies, all theatre, all evil.

This is not for public consumption.  There are those who know exactly who I am talking to.

There are many of us here who still keep our mouths shut about so  many things.  There are too many who don’t even care, most of us at VT  do.  Yes, I am aware I can be jailed, I am aware my passport can be  pulled, I already see the damned surveillance.
Amateurs.
We aren’t anti-American.  I am simply sick of seeing solutions that  go one direction, stealing everything that isn’t nailed down.  I am also  sick of the fact that Washington can’t visit the “head’ without  Israel’s permission.

This…today, this is too much. It is unforgivable.  We are not going to allow this to stand.

We have a long standing history of “cleaning house” after operations  of this kind.  Usually its dead senators in plane crashes, heart  attacks, car wrecks, like the Minot Barksdale or 9/11 incidents.  I  could name a dozen more.  Does the name Wheeler meaning anything to  you?  Anyone remember Pat Tillman?
But this many?
g
———————————-
Suppressed TV Report of Navy Seals Killed in bin Laden Operation (Urdo – Translation Below)

YouTube - Veterans Today -


 

Anchor: Welcome back, Mohammad Bashir is a resident of  Abboottabad’s Bilal Town. Muhammad Bashir might seem an ordinary guy but  he is no ordinary guy. Muhammad Bashir lives in front of Osama Ben  Laden’s house in Bilal Town Abbottabad. On 2nd of May, Muhammad Bashir  was present on his rooftop from where he saw the whole American  operation against Osama Ben Laden with his own eyes. Yesterday when our  team was present In Bilal Town, Abbottabad, near Osama Ben Laden’s hose,  Muhammad Bashir came to us and said, “Sister, I need to tell you  something, something that is a burden on my heart and soul”, just listen  to what he said.
Bashir: I am going to share something about the Abbottabad operation which till this day nobody else has told you.
Anchor: But Muhammad Bashir was a little afraid too, while talking to  me he telephoned hia reletive, Vice President of Jummat-e-Islami, Abdur  Razzaq Abasi, watch it
Reporter: Tell me your name and tell me whare do you live
Bashir: Let me first, Let me talk to him one minute, i will give you full interview, full or half?
Reporter: Full Full
Bashir: Let me first talk to him
Reporter: To whom? To Abbasi?
Bashir: yes, to Abbasi
Anchor: Muhammad Bashir told us something that no one said before. So  we checked his identity card, we also confirmed that he really lives  there, we asked from the senior fellows about him. We were very  astonished by his story just see and listen what he said.
Bashir: We were awake, not asleep, a helicopter came, some men came  down from that, into that house, then that helicopter went away
Reporter: How many men?
Bashir: 10-12, then that helicopter took rounds of those rear hills,  then he came bac…k and when he came bach, two more helicopters arrived,  one from the west and other from the north, there was a blast in the  first helicopter and it was on fire, we immediately came out, when we  reached there, the helicopter was burning, then after about 20 minutes  the army and police arrived, they pushed us back, now we are asking that  if oama was here then who took him to america because all those men  that came in the helicopter died in the blast, now if Osama was in that  helicopter he must have died and got burnt in that helicopter too, then  how they took him? this is a question of serious concern. America claims  they they killed him and picked him up. How they picked him up? This is  what we are thinking
Reporter: Was there only one helicopter?
Bashir? Yes the other that came flew away to Mansehra, there was only  one that landed the men and came back to pick them but as he was  picking them up, it blew away and caught fire.
Reporter: Then were in it when it blew?
Bashir: Yes They were.
Reporter : How you know?
Bashir: We saw it with our own eyes
Reporter: You saw dead man?
Bashir: Yes, dead men,
Reporter: How many?
Bashir: I couldnt count them because then the compound was on fire.  The gate was open, we went in, the army and police hadnt arrived then,  there were some people but they werent stopping them. The whole  neighborhood has seen that but they are silent now.
Bashir: We saw the helicopter burning, we saw the dead bodies, then everything was removed and now there is nothing
Reporter: How many dead bodies you saw?
Bashir: We couldn’t count them because they were blown into pieces.

The reporter asked Bashir to narrate the story again.

Bashir said we could see the faces of those men but they  were speaking pashto. I dont know whether they were Pakistani or  American army or people of agencies, as you know that agency people can  speak many languages.
May be they were speaking Pashto so that we consider them Pakistani.
They knocked and banged at our doors and told us not to come out.
I laid down on my rooftop and was watching them.
My kids were calling me, I told them to go to their rooms and let me check whats going on.
The reporter asks Bashir, that when he saw that the helicopter was American what was he thinking then?
Bashir said that he got afraid. He didn’t had in his mind that they  will attack that house. He thought that they might have come to attack  the Pakistan Army.
The reporter asked so when was your cousin Shamraiz taken away?
Bashir: Shamrez was at our home, as the helicopter exploded, me and  many others went out of our homes to see what happened. Shamrez also  came out and the gate of the compound was open, we went in, every thing  was lying scattered, as it is a huge compound, some body parts were  lying here, some there, legs, arms, heads, broken and torn body parts,  during that time some part of the helicopter inside, may be the engine  or other fuel related part had an explosion so we rushed out. During  that time Shamrez was taken away, he is in his home now, but no one is  allowed to meet him and i couldn’t get a chance to talk to him later.
Then the anchor says that they had vegetations inside the compound  and Shamrez was their gardener. We know that two men Arshad and Tariq  used to live there. They had good relations with the neighbours, they  used to buy things from the local store. Sometimes imported dates and  used to send many things to their neighbours.
Then the reporter is at Abdullah Ben Zubair Mosque, which is the nearest to compound of Osama.
She asks a guy: do you think people would have been glad and happy if they would have ever met osama?
The guy : Yes, possibly. Because he was a muslim and he believed in God.

This is the whole story! Every aspect and point translated.

The gentleman being interviewed lives across from the  compound. His cousin Sahab Jamrez Khan used to grow vegetables in the  compound. He was taken away in all the hullabaloo on tape @10.29 Bashir  says he did not see when they wisked his cousin away.
Interviewer asks “Have you spoken to your cousin?”
Bashir “No, I have not seen him yet he in in the house. “They will not let him get out” “They will not let me get in.”
2 other men Arshad Sahib and Tariq Sahib used to go to market to shop  for that compound and bought international brand items. Dates, dried  meat found in compound. Also food used to come from compound to Bashir’s  house Kabulu Pilau and things like that used to be presented to Bashir.  They will follow up with more information. In the end the lady is  standing in front of Abdullah Bin Zubair mosque. The mosque was with in  walking distance of the compound. She asks people if Osama did attend  this mosque people would have be happy? The one answered maybe. The  other said Osama did “not” live here but he was muslim and believed in  God. Interview ends.
Another thing to note is that Bashir mentioned that we are very  “sharif” meaning law abiding honest people. His town was a peaceful  place no excitement no murders, fights, and he is unhappy how they have  made his town so frightful with all this news. One thing is very clear  in this video. Two helicopters hovered never landed. One landed dropped  Pashto speaking poeple on the roof 10-12 of them Helicopter left fo 20  minutes returned to load people in and small blast engine failure fire  helicopter parts all over. Body parts arms, legs, head, all over.  Pakistani Army/Police came in dispersed crowd. The whole scene is  cleaned up totally now. No evidence left to examine.

Deep Background, The Raymond Davis Affair

YouTube - Veterans Today -



POSTED AUGUST 5, 2011

STOP COOPERATING

You knew it would lead to this---sooner or later. Most here in the U.S. still think they can get around it. You can't. In the past, I and many others have used the lessons of history to not only describe the ever encroaching tyranny blanketing the U.S., but historical examples to give us all a window into the future.

The window clearly shows tyranny never stops on its' own. It has to be stopped. The ultimate goal of those who are consumed with evil is the total destruction of everyone and everything. Fortunately, for mankind, there has always been resistance to the achievement of that goal. Usually, but not always, it turns violent. In the end, those promulgating their agenda are overcome by equal or superior force. Then we have passive resistance. Ghandi, Martin Luther King and others in the anti-war movement of the 60's resisted under great duress. Many were jailed. Some were beaten and others were killed, but they saw no alternative. Ultimately, evil was defeated.

Today, we see hundreds, if not thousands of articles and videos on the atrocities of the Airport Nazis (TSA). We also see complaints being filed as well as lawsuits. This has amounted to nothing. The outrages have actually increased. I'm sorry, but if we want this to end, we have to stop cooperating. That may mean not being allowed to fly. That may mean being arrested. If they ask you to go into the radiation bath, politely say no. If they say they are going to frisk you or your children, politely say no, get a warrant. I know, it takes courage, but without the courage to defend freedom, you will soon lose it. In the Mel Gibson movie, Braveheart, he asked, "What would you do for freedom"? I wonder how comfortable the average American is when answering, "nothing".

Bruce                              New World Order News


TSA Illegally Confiscates Pregnant Woman’s Insulin As “Explosives Risk”
Keeping America safe from diabetes sufferers
Steve Watson
Infowars.com
Aug 5, 2011
The TSA is at it again. Putting in danger and  infringing on the  rights of every day Americans attempting to go about their  daily  business is now par for the course in the nation’s airports.
This time the agency faces a formal complaint over  an incident  Yesterday at Denver International Airport where a TSO screener   confiscated a pregnant woman’s insulin and ice packs, claiming they were  “at  risk for explosives.”
The woman, who asked to remain unidentified for  fear that TSA agents  would retaliate against her in future, described the  incident to local ABC affiliate 7 News:
“He’s like, ‘Well, you’re a risk.’ I’m like,  ‘Excuse me?’ And he’s  like, ‘This is a risk … I can’t tell you why again. But  this is at risk  for explosives,’”
“I got a bottle of nail polish. I got hair spray  bottles. I got  needles that are syringes. But yet I can’t take through my actual   insulin?” she retorted.
The woman says she ensured that the the insulin  was clearly labeled  and even produced a doctor’s note, yet still the TSO was  adamant that  the medicine constituted a security threat.
The TSA’s own website clearly states  that insulin  and all standard supplies associated with diabetes are  permitted through the  checkpoint once they have been screened.
In addition, TSA procedure does not allow for  confiscation of any  legal items. Agents may only take something from a passenger  via  “voluntary surrender”. In this instance the confiscation therefore   constitutes theft.
The fact that the confiscated item in question was  a diabetes  sufferer’s insulin, coupled with the fact that the woman is with  child  makes the incident even more despicable.
Worse still, the woman claims that the agent never  even confirmed the fact that the insulin had been removed from her baggage.

Picture: The TSA’s own websites clearly  indicates that insulin  and all diabetes related medicines and equipment are  permitted through  security checkpoints.
The icing on the cake here comes with the fact  that while quite  prepared to violate the law and the agency’s own procedures,  the TSA  agent was too incompetent to conduct a thorough search, as the woman   says she managed to smuggle through half a vial of insulin.
“It was at the bottom of my lunch box because they  didn’t search it  all the way through. They just took out every thing on top,”  she said.
When asked for an explanation, the TSA refused to  discuss the case, providing the following generic pre-prepared statement:

TSA’s mission is to safely, efficiently and  respectfully screen nearly 2 million passengers each day at airports  nationwide.
We are sensitive to the concerns of passengers who  were not  satisfied with their screening experience and we invite those   individuals to provide feedback to TSA through a variety of channels. We  work to  balance those concerns with the very real threat that our  adversaries will  attempt to use explosives to carry out attacks on  planes.
It is the traveler’s responsibility to have proper  government issued  identification and a boarding pass; to cooperate with  applicable  screening procedures and instructions and to communicate their   disability or health related needs.
Liquid medications should be labeled, and those in  quantities larger  than 3.4 ounces (100ml) each need to be separated from other  carry-on  items and declared to the security officer as medically necessary. A   declaration can be made verbally, in writing, or by a person’s  companion,  caregiver, interpreter, or family member. Liquids in excess  of 3.4 ounces will  require additional screening.

This woman is lucky she wasn’t locked in a glass  box by agents and  forced to prove she was diabetic by injecting herself with  insulin, such is the mind set of the tyrannical TSA stationed  throughout the country’s airports.




POSTED AUGUST 4, 2011

MORE "SLAVE TRADE" DEALS COMING

What? Slave Trade! Oh, that's right. Our government masters don't use that term. They use the term "free trade". I guess that's because many of those countries who sign those deals with us, use workers who work for free  ---- otherwise known as slaves.

Going back into recent history, all of the "slave trade" deals approved by the Senate, (NAFTA, GATT, WTO and CAFTA) were overwhelmingly opposed by the American people. Millions of letters, Emails and phone calls to our represented were answered with the standard "go to Hell"  from Washington. 20 million lost jobs later and our government masters are now set to pass three long-stalled free trade agreements with South Korea, Colombia and Panama. Again I ask, "what will it take for Americans to get mad"?

Today, we here in the U.S., watched as our stock market melted down. And why not? Many of us have been warning that this economy and the dollar itself, is based on nothing. How long can that continue? As a child I watched cartoons where the coyote would chase the roadrunner. Occasionally, the coyote would run off a cliff and continue to run in mid air. It was only when he realized he was not on solid ground that he fell. This nation is the coyote, hanging in mid air. The only difference is, our elected representatives have pushed us off the cliff.

Bruce                        New World Order News


U.S. Senate leaders agree to move forward on trade deals
RIA Novosti
August 4, 2011
U.S. Senate leaders have agreed on a path to approve a displaced  worker aid bill that would pave the way for a vote on three long-stalled  free trade agreements with South Korea, Colombia and Panama.
Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid and Minority Leader Mitch McConnell  said they have agreed on a “path forward” to pass the controversial  Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) program to help workers who lose their  jobs because of foreign competition after Congress returns in September  from its summer break.
This would be followed by votes on the three trade deals, each signed nearly five years ago.
The announcement comes just days after last-ditch legislation passed  in Congress to raise the U.S. debt ceiling and avoid a federal default.
“My staff and McConnell’s staff have been in discussions for weeks  over the Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) program and the three  outstanding FTAs,” Reid said in a statement on Wednesday night.
“We believe those discussions have provided a path forward in the  Senate after we return for passage of the bipartisan compromise on the  Trade Adjustment Assistance program, followed by passage of the three  FTAs,” Reid said.
The U.S. Trade representative’s Office and House of Representatives  Speaker John Boehner praised the deal, saying that Reid and McConnell  had “cleared an important hurdle.”


POSTED AUGUST 3, 2011

DRUNKEN BERNANKE FINALLY TELLS THE TRUTH

I couldn't believe my eyes as I read the story posted below, but I kind of believe it. Ordinarily, I like to have more than someone's story to post news, but there are reasons to believe the remarks attributed to Federal Reserve Chairman, Ben Bernanke. The first is, many of his remarks are actually true, unlike the B.S. he usually spews for the cameras. The economy is finished. We may never recover. Unemployment is at least double what the government says and so on.

Another reason I believe the story is he was reported to be drunk. Those of us who have known pathological liars, like the Fed Chairman, know that plying someone with liquor very often gets them to spill their guts truthfully. That was apparently the case that evening at the bar.

Yesterday, I lamented the fact that most here in the U.S. couldn't care less about the direction that will devastate this nation. More care today than before because millions have lost their jobs and been pitched out of their homes into the middle of the street. This trend will continue as will the numbers  of those who care. Meanwhile we continue to warn. When this finally  reaches its' inevitable conclusion, no one can complain about the fact  that they weren't warned. The warnings are all over the place and have  been there for many years. So let us thank an inebriated Ben Bernanke,  for still another warning.

Bruce                        New World Order News 


Drunken Ben Bernanke Tells Everyone At Neighborhood Bar How Screwed U.S. Economy Really Is
August 3, 2011  |                  ISSUE 47•31

 The intoxicated Federal Reserve chairman informs bar patrons of the dangers of reckless spending.

 

SEWARD, NE—Claiming he wasn't afraid to let everyone in  attendance know about "the real mess we're in," Federal Reserve chairman  Ben Bernanke reportedly got drunk Tuesday and told everyone at Elwood's  Corner Tavern about how absolutely f**ked the U.S. economy actually is.
Bernanke, who sources confirmed was "totally sloshed," arrived at the  drinking establishment at approximately 5:30 p.m., ensconced himself  upon a bar stool, and consumed several bottles of Miller High Life and a  half-dozen shots of whiskey while loudly proclaiming to any patron who  would listen that the economic outlook was "pretty g*****ned awful if  you want the God's honest truth."
"Look, they don't want anyone except for the Washington, D.C. bigwigs  to know how bad **it really is," said Bernanke, slurring his words as  he spoke. "Mounting debt exacerbated—and not relieved—by unchecked  consumption, spiraling interest rates, and the grim realities of an  inevitable worldwide energy crisis are projected to leave our entire  economy in the ****ter for, like, a generation, man, I'm telling you."
Enlarge ImageA drunken Bernanke attempts to find the Aerosmith song "Back In The Saddle" on the bar jukebox.
"And hell, as long as we're being honest, I might as well tell you  that a truer estimate of the U.S. unemployment rate is actually up  around 16 percent, with a 0.7 percent annual rate of economic growth if  we're lucky—if we're lucky," continued Bernanke, nearly knocking a  full beer over while gesturing with his hands. "Of course, if everybody  knew that, it would likely cripple financial markets across the entire  f***ing globe, even in various emerging economies with self- sustaining  growth."
After launching into an extended 45-minute diatribe about  shortsighted moves by "those bastards in Congress" that could  potentially exacerbate the nation's already deeply troublesome budget  imbalance, the Federal Reserve chairman reportedly bought a round of  tequila shots for two customers he had just met who were seated on  either side of him, announcing, "I love these guys."
Numerous bar patrons slowly nodded in agreement as Bernanke went on  to suggest the United States could pass three or four more stimulus  packages and "it wouldn't even matter."
"You think that's going to create long-term economic growth, let  alone promote job creation?" Bernanke said. "We're way beyond that, my  friend. There are no jobs, okay? There's nothing. I think that calls for  another drink, don't you?"
While using beer bottles and pretzel sticks in an attempt to explain  to the bartender the importance of infusing $650 billion into the bond  market, the inebriated Fed chairman nearly fell off his stool and had to  be held up by the patron sitting next to him.
Another bargoer confirmed Bernanke stood about 2 inches from her face  and sprayed her with saliva, claiming inflation was going to "totally  screw" consumer confidence and then asking if he could bum a smoke.
"Sure, we could hold down long-term interest rates and pursue a  program of quantitative easing, but c'mon, we all know that's not going  to make the slightest bit of difference when it comes to output, demand,  or employment," Bernanke said before being told to "try to keep [his]  voice down" by the bartender. "And trust me, with the value of the U.S.  dollar in the toilet, import costs going through the roof, and numerous  world governments unprepared for their own substantial debt burdens,  shit's not looking too good for us abroad, either."
"God, I'm so wasted," added Bernanke, resting his head on the bar.
Later in the evening, Richard Kampman, a truck driver who was laid  off in 2010, said Bernanke approached him in the men's restroom and  attempted to strike up a conversation about various factors contributing  to the current financial crisis.
"He stumbled up to the urinal and started mumbling on about the  depressed housing sector or something," said Kampman, who claimed  Bernanke had to use both hands on the wall to steady himself. "Then  after a while he just sort of stopped and I couldn't tell if he was  laughing or crying."
"Then he puked all over the sink and the mirror," Kampman added.
Customers at the bar told reporters the "shitfaced" and disruptive  Bernanke refused to pay for his drinks with U.S. currency, claiming it  was "worthless." Witnesses also confirmed that near the end of the  evening, Bernanke put money into the jukebox and selected Dire Straits'  "Money For Nothing" to play five times in a row.
"This is what it's all about," said Bernanke, who reportedly danced  alone in the middle of the dark tavern. "F**king love this song."




POSTED AUGUST 2, 2011

SOVIET STYLE CENTRAL COMMITTEE PASSES CONGRESS

Lenin would be proud. According to Wikipedia, the definition of The Central Committee of the Soviet Union is as follows: "the Central Committee is usually understood by the party membership to be the ultimate decision-making authority between Congresses once the process of democratic centralism has led to an agreed-upon position." So here we are, Comrades!

The article below covers the most recent actions on the part of our government masters to enact provisions of the Communist Manifesto. 2 months ago, Obama issued an executive order appointing 25 people to a committee and giving them vague authority over all rural land in the U.S. Today our Congress gave its' blessing to the appointment of 12 Congressional representatives  to rule our nation. The President would also be included bringing the total to 13. No matter what B.S. is being spew-ed by our government masters, this is the ultimate result of this action.

The most disturbing thing is nothing motivates middle America anymore. Don't think that they don't see that!  Our representatives have virtually done anything they wanted without consequences. Now, all of their evil dreams and desires can be realized because most, here, will do nothing to stop them. I am saddened by the loss of my Republic. I have written in the past about the millions in Nazi Germany who willingly got on the trains to the death camps. As a young man, I could never understand how people could be that stupid. Today, as a much older man, I understand.

Bruce                New World Order News


Super Congress: the final nail in the coffin of representative democracy and freedom as we know it
Madison Ruppert
Infowars.com
Aug 2, 2011
Cloaked in the fear surrounding the debt ceiling and a possible  default is the most dangerous legislation that America has ever faced.  If this passes, the Super Congress will make the PATRIOT Act look like a  just and fair law. When six Republicans, six Democrats and the  President have complete control over the legislature, we need to be  concerned.
The most frightening aspect of this proposed “committee”, inaccurate  though the term may be, is the fact that lawmakers in Washington have  already openly admitted the unprecedented power they will be afforded.
Referring to the Super Congress as a committee is a bit deceitful.  Calling it a Supreme Council of Overlords would be a bit more accurate.
Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid made this quite clear by announcing on the Senate floor that,  “The joint committee – there are no constraints. They can look at any  program we have in government, any program … It has the ability to look  at everything.”
When this is made explicit and openly so, I think there should be  some serious concern among Americans. The PATRIOT Act was not billed as  an Act that would be used to detain and torture Americans and innocent  people from around the globe who did not have any evidence against them.  We only found this out after it was rushed into law.
The Super Congress, on the other hand, has already been exposed as a  completely unconstitutional body that will remove the ability for anyone  to filibuster a bill or amend it in any way. This gives 13 people the  unprecedented power to push through any legislation without a single  amendment.
This fact already has some groups up in arms, literally.
The Gun Owners of America released a statement summarizing how this Super Congress could easily be used to wipe out our right to bear arms.
As they outline, much of the unconstitutional gun control legislation  has been killed in the House and Senate through filibuster and with the  help of Speaker of the House John Boehner.
However, if the Super Congress is passed into law, the crucial  ability to filibuster will destroy all impediments and highly  restrictive laws like the United Nation’s small arms treaty could easily  be put into law.
The larger question that looms over this entire issue is: what can they not pass?
Unfortunately for everyone in America, and the world for that matter,  this Super Congress would have literally no limitations whatsoever.  Every single controversial bill that has been filibustered or voted out  could be pushed through. Let your imagination run wild, although be  warned it likely won’t lead anywhere pretty.
If you live in the United States, you have the duty to contact  everyone you know and inform them about this issue. We need to build a  massive grassroots movement that will inundate our representatives 24/7  with the call to never allow this to be put into law. We must stop this  before it is passed, or else it will be too late and whatever shred of  freedom we had left will be lost for good.
Madison Ruppert is the Editor and Owner-Operator of the alternative news and analysis databaseEnd The Lie  and has no affiliation with any NGO, political party, economic school,  or other organization/cause. If you have questions, comments, or  corrections feel free to contact him atadmin@EndtheLie.com



POSTED AUGUST 1, 2011

NOTHING CHANGES WITH THIS BUNCH

I am speaking of our government masters and the ongoing dog and pony show with respect to the U.S. debt ceiling. The article below covers some of the main points, but it's no use in reading it. (I know. I posted it and now I'm saying not to bother reading it.) This is the same old crap. It never changes, because they never change.

First of all, there is no debt ceiling. According to all accepted standards of accounting, the national debt should be in the neighborhood of 100 trillion dollars. Of course our government does not live by the rules the rest of us live by. So, if they overspend or overcommitt, they just make up their own rules. They call them "unfunded liabilities". Just ignore them. We'll just pretend they don't exist. Meanwhile, even after the borrowing of more money is authorized, "Who is going to lend it to us?". Answer: No one. Over the past several months the treasury has been attempting to borrow 100 billion dollars per month, but have been able to borrow only 30 billion per month. They then just get the Federal Reserve to "print" the rest. No, there are no accepted accounting procedures here.

Now let's look into the future. 1) More borrowing. 2) Higher taxes. 3) More dollar devaluation. 4) More war 5) More lying from government. 6) More federalized police. 7) More activities outlawed. 8) Economic collapse. 9) Marshal law. 10) Chaos.

Enjoy the upcoming football season.

Bruce                      New World Order News


Middle classes to be hit by tax increase by the back door: Obama and  Boehner face furious backlash from their own parties as last minute  debt deal is slammed a 'fudge'

Democrats fear  further spending cuts while Republicans say deal is just a means of  raising taxes at a later stage by joint committee
Senior Democrats hint tax hike still to come

Frantic behind the scenes lobbying expected to get lawmakers on the fringes of both parties to support deal
Experts fear credit rating will still be downgraded as U.S. enters double-dip recession and Dow Jones dramatically falls

Deal slammed a 'sugar-coated Satan sandwich'
Tea Party senator says he will filibuster today's vote

Obama: Debt deal will end crisis and remove cloud over the economy
Agreement will cut about $1trillion over 10 years

 
By  Paul Bentley and John Stevens
Last updated at 8:26 PM on 1st August 2011
President Barack Obama today  faced furious reaction to his last-minute debt deal, with experts  slamming the agreement as a cruel means of hitting middle classes with  tax hikes 'through the back door'.
The  President and congressional leaders last night finally announced an  agreement on emergency legislation to avert the nation's first-ever  financial default.
But  while the dramatic resolution briefly lifted a cloud that had threatened  the still-fragile economic recovery, critics said in the long run the  middle classes would bear the brunt of the country's massive debt, with  increased taxes set to cover for the White House's reluctance to cut  public spending.
Scroll down for videos
 
 

 

 

At last: President Barack Obama's deal to raise  the U.S. the debt ceiling gave a brief boost to the UK stock market  before an afternoon plunge



 
The agreement, slammed as a 'sugar-coated Satan sandwich', is set to slice at least  $2.4 trillion from federal spending over a decade, a price which is seen as too steep for many Democrats and too little for many Republicans.
According to President Obama, the  deal, which came with scant time remaining before Tuesday's deadline for  paying government bills, 'will allow us to avoid default and end the crisis that Washington imposed on the rest of America.'
Experts, however, insist the crisis  may still hit middle America the hardest and senior Democrats admitted  today that tax hikes were very much on the agenda.
Hours  after agreeing to the debt plan, the White House threatened President  Obama would use his veto to ensure an end to 'Bush tax cuts' for middle  class families.
Two revolutionary laws passed during  the presidency of George W. Bush, which lowered tax rates, will expire  on January 1 2013 - and President Obama intends to do away with them for good.
The White House said that if a bipartisan committee fails to agree on further cuts in the coming months 'it would enable the President to use his veto pen to  ensure nearly $1 trillion in additional deficit reduction by not  extending the high-income tax cuts.'
Gene Sperling, the director of the White House National Economic Council,  said the veto would be used without a broad overhaul of the  tax code.
He told CNN: 'This president also has the veto pen to ensure that the  tax cuts for the most well off are not extended if we do not get the  type of tax reform that is fair to the middle class.'

Thumbs up: Senate Minority Leader Mitch  McConnell is all smiles as he walks to the Senate floor to announce that  a deal has been reached on the debt ceiling

Meanwhile House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi suggested today it was 'disconcerting' that taxes had not been forced on wealthy Americans in the debt deal and that would have to be  remedied. 

There is also the very real  possibility that a 12-person bipartisan committee, which will meet in  the aftermath of the agreement, could still opt to impose a hard-hitting tax hike.
GOP lawmakers said the super committee could well recommend a rise in taxes, which would be passed by the House.

TAX HIKE VIA THE BACK DOOR? HOW THE COMMITTEE WILL BE FORMED

In the aftermath of the debt deal, a 12-member congressional committee, made up of six Republicans and  six Democrats from each chamber, will be tasked with finding a further $1.5 trillion in budget savings.
There  are very legitimate fears the committee will use the opportunity to  make the politically risky  decisions that lawmakers have not been able to agree on so far in the  face of public scrutiny - such as a tax hike or controversial cuts to  programmes such as Medicare.
If  a majority of the committee, whose members will be chosen by leaders of  both parties, agrees on a secondary plan, it will receive a vote in  both the House and the Senate as part of an arrangement to raise the  debt ceiling yet again. 

If,  however, the bipartisan panel deadlocks or fails to produce at least  $1.2 trillion in additional cuts, which is a very real possibility - or  if Congress fails to enact its recommendations - the White House budget  office will impose spending cuts totalling that amount across much of  the federal budget.
Those cuts would fall equally on domestic and military programs.  Medicare would face automatic cuts as well, but Social Security,  Medicaid, federal employee pay, and benefits for veterans and the poor  would be exempt.
The joint  committee would have to present its findings to Congress by November 23,  with an up-or-down vote required by both the House and Senate by  December 23.


In addition, financial experts warned the U.S. credit rating was still  likely to be downgraded, as figures revealed the U.S. has entered a  double-dip recession and the Dow Jones average today fell to a level  barely above the point indicating growth. 

As furious reaction from both parties in Washington continued to emerge,  Republican Senator Mike Lee threatened to filibuster the Senate vote to  try to force the enactment of a constitutional balanced budget amendment to make sure it would be more difficult for the  committee to raise taxes.
He told CNN this morning that he fully intends to employ the delay tactic during today's vote.
Rules allow senators to speak for as long as they wish on any topic during a debate to obstruct an outcome.
The only way for a filibuster to be countered is if three fifths of the  Senators sworn - usually 60 out of 100 - vote to stop it.
'One of the problems about this that has been frustrating is that there has been very little  debate and discussion … we haven't had a single bill to address the  debt-limit issue come into the Senate that has been subject to an open  debate, discussion and amendment process on the floor,' Mr Lee said.
House Speaker John Boehner insisted the current law baseline is 'effectively making it impossible for  [the] Joint Committee to raise taxes,' a statement challenged by conservative analysts.
Democrats are also suspicious of the  deal, threatening a rebellion if Medicare cuts are deepened, while GOP  insiders are reportedly concerned Medicare will be spared cuts, which  will hit the defence programme instead.
Democratic congressman Emanuel Cleaver told MSNBC last night: 'If I were a Republican, this is a night to party.'
 
He added: 'If you lift the bun, what  you see is antithetical to everything the great religions of the world  teach. Which is take care of the poor, take of the aged. 

'I  am concerned about this because we don’t know the details. And until we  see the details, we’re going to be extremely non-committed, but on the  surface it looks like a Satan sandwich.'
House Minority leader Nancy Pelosi said: 'We all may not be able to support it, or none us may be able to support it.' 

Later,  she added: 'We're very concerned that a bill that makes these big cuts  and has not one red cent from the wealthiest people in our country - no  revenue - is very disconcerting.'

 

Deal brokers: White House Chief of Staff Bill  Daley, left, press secretary Jay Carney and communications director  Daniel Pfeffer listen as Mr Obama gives his speech

Representative Raul Grijalva said:  'This deal trades people's livelihoods for the votes of a few  unappeasable right-wing radicals, and I will not support it.'
John Conyers said the public should show their anger by marching on the White House.
He said: 'We’ve got to educate the American people at the same time we  educate the President of the United States. The Republicans, Speaker  Boehner or Majority Leader Cantor did not call for Social Security cuts  in the budget deal. The President of the United States called for that.  My response to him is to mass thousands of people in front of the White  House to protest this.'


'SATAN'S SANDWICH': THE FURIOUS RESPONSE FROM BOTH SIDES

 

 
THE LEFT:
'On the surface it looks like a Satan sandwich' (Rep. Emanuel Cleaver) 

'We're very concerned that a bill that  makes these big cuts and has not one red cent from the wealthiest people in our country - no revenue - is very disconcerting' (House Minority leader Nancy Pelosi)
'This deal trades people's livelihoods for the votes of a few unappeasable  right-wing radicals, and I will not support it' (Rep. Raul Grijalva)
 
'My response to him [Obama] is to mass  thousands of people in front of the White House to protest this' (Rep. John Conyers)


THE RIGHT: 

'I do anticipate requesting one [a filibuster]' (Senator Mike Lee)

'[The deal] spends too much and doesn't cut enough. ... Someone has to say no. I will' (Presidential candidate Michele Bachmann)
'While I appreciate the  extraordinarily difficult situation President Obama’s lack of leadership  has placed Republican Members of Congress in, I personally cannot  support this deal'
(Presidential candidate Mitt Romney)

'I deeply oppose the efforts of the Majority Leader. His plan does not tackle the task at hand' (Senator Orrin Hatch)


Tea party presidential candidate Michele Bachmann added that the deal  'spends too much and doesn't cut enough. ... Someone has to say no. I  will.'
In the aftermath of the announcement  last night, world markets initially showed signs of relief - but the  boost was short-lived. 

The FTSE 100 jumped 60 points in the ten minutes after opening, while Japan's benchmark Nikkei index, opening this morning,  was up 1.7 per cent in early trading. On Wall Street, U.S. stock futures  surged. 
The proposed $3 trillion deal, which  still requires congressional approval, immediately led to a rise in the  value of the dollar and a rally on the stock markets in Asia.
By late morning, however, the Dow Jones industrial average sharply  reversed course, shedding all of those gains after a key manufacturing  index tumbled in July.
The Dow was down than 50 points after the Institute of Supply Management said its manufacturing index fell to 50.9 - an amount barely above the 50 point figure that indicates growth. Economists had been expecting a  much higher reading of 55.
The manufacturing report comes just one trading day after the government said that the economy grew at an annual rate of just 1.3 percent from  April to June. 

GDP  figures show the U.S. has entered a double dip recession, with consumer  spending up a remarkably low 0.1 per cent in the second quarter.

This year, the economy has grown at its slowest pace since the recession ended in June 2009 and sharp reductions in short-term  government spending could further weaken the economy, according to analysts.
Experts also today warned that the debt plan, which still needs to win enough support to pass both chambers of Congress, does not at all remove the threat to America's AAA credit rating.
Julian Jessop, chief international  economist at Capital Economics, said: 'It looks like none of the numbers are going to reassure the debt rating  agencies. I'm pretty sure America will lose its triple-A rating.'
Peter Morici, an economics professor  at the University of Maryland, added: 'This will have minimal impact on  the economy. The cuts are not there for the first couple of years, which really makes you wonder if they're really going to happen at all.'
Although leaders now hope passing the bill will be a formality, there are  expected to be frantic discussions behind the scenes as lawmakers  on the fringes are lobbied by their parties.
Mr Obama said at the White House that defaulting 'would have had a devastating effect on our economy.'
House Speaker John Boehner telephoned Obama at mid-evening last night to say the agreement had been struck, then  immediately began pitching the deal to his fractious rank and file.
'It isn't the greatest deal in the  world, but it shows how much we've changed the terms of the debate in  this town,' he said on a conference call, according to GOP officials. He added the agreement was 'all spending cuts. The White House bid to  raise taxes has been shut down.'
'The leaders of both parties have  reached an agreement,' Mr Obama said announcing the deal at a press  conference from the White House.
 

Negotiations: Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid,  third left, walks through Statuary Hall with other Democrat senators  ahead of talks on Capitol Hill

 
 

Decision time: This image taken from a video of  the U.S. Senate chamber shows members shortly before they defeated a  Democratic proposal to raise the debt ceiling

Mr Obama said the agreement will cut about $1 trillion in spending over 10 years. Another $1.2 trillion in spending would be cut automatically if a joint  committee fails to find at least that much in budget savings.
The deal 'begins to lift the cloud of debt and uncertainty that hangs over our economy,' said the President.
'I want to thank Americans who compelled Washington [to reach a deal],' he said.
'It allows us to avoid default, pay bills and reduced the deficit.'
'Is this the deal I would have preferred? No,' Mr Obama said. 'But this  compromise does make a serious down payment on the deficit reduction we  need.'
Furious supporters of both major parties took to Twitter today to express their frustration at the last minute deal.
 
 

More...

ALEX BRUMMER: Petty squabble shames America
Hold the champagne! Debt crisis talks throw doubt on Obama's lavish 50th birthday party
What now for Obama? President looks weak after being held to ransom by Tea Party Republicans
Dow plummets after worse manufacturing figures for TWO YEARS amid fears the U.S. is now in 'double dip' recession
Armed forces 'will not be ready to fight' after cuts which could reach almost $1trillion, chiefs warn


Democrat Manish Thakur wrote:  'Tea Party wins big. Hopefully they'll now get ahead of themselves and  (in a McGovern moment) make Bachmann the GOP nominee :)'
Conservative Elisha Bjorne sent a public message to tea  party champion Allen West, stating: 'My brief  assessment is you have slowed the sinking of the Titanic & hope 2/3  life boats will arrive in 2012. No guarantee.'
Another conservative writer, RB,  wrote: 'Wow. Obama has hippie-punched the #p2 [liberal] loons so many  times I've lost count. How many times has it been, moonbats? Still in  love?'

A progressive, who goes by the  username @MBtheZEE, added: 'Could it be any more clear representative  gov't is dead? We're a plutocracy.The vast majority wanted tax increases on top 2% & NOTHING.'

The U.S. debt deal  cuts spending by $917 billion over 10 years and tasks a panel with  finding at least $1.5 trillion more to trim, House of Representatives  Speaker John Boehner said.
 

Statement: President Barack Obama smiles briefly  while approaching the podium to speak in the briefing room at the White  House about the debt negotiations

 
In a presentation prepared for a call with his fellow Republicans, Mr Boehner said the joint committee would  have to present its findings to Congress by November 23, with an  up-or-down vote required by both the House and Senate by December 23.
No votes were expected in either house of Congress until Monday at the  earliest, to give rank and file lawmakers to review the package.
Mr Obama said that, if enacted, the agreement would mean 'the lowest level of domestic spending since Dwight Eisenhower was president' more than a half century ago.
Senate Democratic leader Harry Reid provided the first word of the agreement.

Outspoken: Pelosi is clearly unhappy with the deal and has warned wealthy Americans should be hit with a tax hike

'Sometimes it seems our two sides  disagree on almost everything,' he said. 'But in the end, reasonable  people were able to agree on this: The United States could not take the  chance of defaulting on our debt, risking a United States financial  collapse and a world-wide depression.'
In his remarks, Mr Obama said there  will be no initial cuts to entitlement programs like Social Security and Medicare. But he said both could be on the table along with changes in  tax law as part of future cuts.
That was a reference to a special joint committee of lawmakers that will be  established to recommend a second round of deficit reductions, to be  voted on by Congress before year's end as part of an arrangement to  raise the debt ceiling yet again. That is expected to be necessary early next year.
Pending final  passage, the agreement marked a dramatic reach across party lines that  played out over six months and several rounds of negotiating,  interspersed by periods of intense partisanship.
A  final stick point had concerned possible cuts in the nation's defense  budget in the next two years. Republicans wanted less. Democrats pressed  for more in an attempt to shield domestic accounts from greater  reductions.
Details  apparently included in the agreement provide that the federal debt limit  would rise in two stages by at least $2.2 trillion, enough to tide the  Treasury over until after the 2012 elections.
Big cuts in government spending would  be phased in over a decade. Thousands of programs - the Park Service,  Labor Department and housing among them - could be trimmed to levels  last seen years ago.
No Social Security or Medicare  benefits would be cut, but the programs could be scoured for other  savings. Taxes would be unlikely to rise.
Without legislation in place by  Tuesday, the Treasury will not be able to pay all its bills, raising the threat of a default that administration officials say could inflict  catastrophic damage on the economy.
Officials familiar with the  negotiations said that Mr McConnell had been in frequent contact with Vice  President Joe Biden, who has played an influential role across months of negotiations.
In the first stage under the  agreement, the nation's debt limit would rise immediately by nearly $1  trillion and spending would be cut by a slightly larger amount over a  decade.
 

Announcement: President Barack Obama arrives to  speak from the White House briefing room about a deal being reached to  raise the debt limit

 
That would be followed by creation of  the new congressional committee that would have until the end of  November to recommend $1.8 trillion or more in deficit cuts, targeting  benefit programs such as Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security, or  overhauling the tax code. Those deficit cuts would allow a second  increase in the debt limit.

Wary: Republican Senator Mike Lee said measures should be put in place to prevent the committee raising taxes

If the committee failed to reach its  $1.8 trillion target, or Congress failed to approve its recommendations  by the end of 2011, lawmakers would then have to vote on a proposed  constitutional balanced-budget amendment.
If that failed to pass, automatic  spending cuts totalling $1.2 trillion would automatically take effect,  and the debt limit would rise by an identical amount.
Social Security, Medicaid and food  stamps would be exempt from the automatic cuts, but payments to doctors, nursing homes and other Medicare providers could be trimmed, as could  subsidies to insurance companies that offer an alternative to  government-run Medicare.
Officials describing those steps spoke on condition of anonymity, citing both the sensitivity of the talks and the potential that details could change.
The deal marked a classic compromise, a triumph of divided government that would let both Mr Obama and Republicans claim they had achieved their objectives.
As the President demanded, the deal  would allow the debt limit to rise by enough to tide the Treasury over  until after the 2012 elections.
But it appeared Mr Obama's proposal to  extend the current payroll tax holiday beyond the end of 2011 would not  be included, nor his call for extended unemployment benefits for victims of the recession.
 
 

 

Hopeful: U.S. Senate Minority Leader Mitch  McConnell and Minority Whip Jon Kyl walk to the Senate ahead of this  afternoon's vote, as a deal on the debt crisis becomes 'very close'



Hope: After a vote on his plan failed, U.S.  Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid told lawmakers not to stray far,  raising hopes the new deal could be finalised this afternoon

Republicans would win spending cuts of slightly more than the increase in the debt limit, as they have  demanded. 

Congressional Democrats have long  insisted that Medicare and Social Security benefits not be cut, a  victory for them in the proposal under discussion. Yet they would have  to absorb even deeper cuts in hundreds of federal programs than were  included in Reid's bill, which many Democrats supported in a symbolic  vote on the House floor on Saturday.

Optimism: Senator Chuck Schumer told CBS: 'If there's a word right here that would sum up the mood, it would be relief'

As details began to emerge, one  liberal organization, Progressive Change Campaign Committee, issued a  statement that was harshly critical.
'Seeing a Democratic president take  taxing the rich off the table and instead push a deal that will lead to  Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid benefit cuts is like entering a  bizarre parallel universe - one with horrific consequences for  middle-class families,' it said.
While politically powerful business  groups like the Chamber of Commerce are expected to support the deal,  tea party organizations and others have looked disapprovingly on  legislation that doesn't require approval of a balanced-budget  amendment.
If they keep to that position, it  could present Mr Boehner a challenge in lining up enough votes to support a compromise, just as Obama may have to stand down rebels within his own  party.
Though a compromise thrashed out over the weekend looks set to avoid the prospect of a crisis, the unprecedented  political row appears to have badly damaged the reputation of the  world's largest economy and raised questions over whether it can pay its way in the future.
China, which is likely to overtake  the U.S. as the biggest economy in 2015, and is the largest holder of  U.S. government debt, appears furious. 

The official People's Daily newspaper castigated the handling of the debt crisis as 'irresponsible'.
And a senior economic policymaker in  the Eurozone said he expected Washington to solve the problem, but  expressed surprise and anger that U.S. politicians were 'playing  chicken' with an issue of such importance for the global economy.
 
In the past, increases in the U.S.  'debt ceiling' have been routine, but Republicans, alarmed by President  Obama's failure to set out ways to tackle the country's giant deficit,  have demanded huge spending cuts as a condition for approving the  increase this time.
Some have taken an even more hardline view. Voting against the measures on Friday, Republican presidential  candidate Michele Bachmann said she would not vote for any bill that  raised the ceiling.
U.S. stock markets last week posted their worst results for a year, while the dollar slumped as uncertainty increased.
What is the deal? The key points of the agreement


The  deal would allow President Barack Obama to raise the debt ceiling in  three steps. Congress would get a chance to register its disapproval on  two of these, but would not be able to block them unless it musters a  two-thirds vote in both the House and the Senate -- an unlikely  prospect.
It envisions  spending cuts of roughly $2.4 trillion over 10 years, which Congress  would approve in two steps -- an initial $917 billion when the deal  passes Congress and another $1.5 trillion by the end of the year.
The  first group of spending cuts would apply to the discretionary programs  that Congress approves annually, covering everything from the military  to food inspection.


Agreement: Deal would allow Mr Obama to raise the debt ceiling in three stages

Those programs would be capped each year  for 10 years. The caps would be relatively modest at first to avoid  stifling the shaky economy -- spending for the fiscal year that begins  October 1 would be only $6 billion below the current level of $1.049  trillion. The caps would have a greater impact in later years, when it  is hoped that the economy will have recovered.
Some  $350 billion of the $917 billion total would come from defense and  other security programs which now account for more than half of all  discretionary spending. Republicans are resisting this idea and it is  one of the few areas of dispute left.
Automatic across-the-board spending cuts would kick in if Congress does not observe the caps in coming years.
A  12-member congressional committee, made up equally of Republicans and  Democrats from each chamber, would be tasked with finding a further $1.5  trillion in budget savings.
That  committee could find savings from an overhaul of the tax code and  restructuring benefit programs like Medicare -- the politically risky  decisions that lawmakers have not been able to agree on so far.
The  committee would have to complete its work by November 23. Congress  would have an up-or-down vote, with no modifications, on the committee's  recommendations by December 23.
If  the committee cannot agree on at least $1.2 trillion in savings, or  Congress rejects its findings, automatic spending cuts totaling that  amount would kick in starting in 2013.
Those  cuts would fall equally on domestic and military programs. Medicare  would face automatic cuts as well, but Social Security, Medicaid,  federal employee pay, and benefits for veterans and the poor would be  exempt.
The plan also  calls for both the House and the Senate to vote on a balanced budget  amendment to the Constitution by the end of the year. It is not likely  to receive the two-thirds vote in each chamber needed for passage, but  its inclusion will make it easier for conservatives to back the overall  deal.


Read more: http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2020959/US-debt-ceiling-crisis-Obama-Boehner-face-backlash-fudged-minute-deal.html#ixzz1ToUhgfNw



POSTED JULY 29, 2011

GOD SAYS OBEY YOUR RULERS

As far representing God,  it is correct, but Romans 13 is commonly used by government leaders as justification to require blind obedience of Christians, to them.

In my collection of old books is a King James Bible that my parents bought me in 1961. Lo and behold the words of that Bible in Romans 13 is different from almost all translations today. In the older Bibles, Paul writes to the Christian Roman community that they should obey the "higher powers". Today, translators have taken the liberty of changing the "higher powers" to "government". In reading further Paul described these leaders as "a terror to evil",  and "God's minister". The Emperor of Rome at that time was Nero. Nero was a bloodthirsty murderer and pervert. He made a ritual out of strangling a young boy every day before lunch. Hardly fitting the description Paul gave in Romans 13.

There is another verse in the Bible. Genesis 3: 1, refers to the devil as more cunning than any other creature. Jesus in his ministry warned us repeatedly not to be deceived. He used that admonition dozens of times. If we, in the modern U.S., can learn anything, it is this. We should always assume Satan is working 24 hours a day, 7 days a week to deceive us. He is the best at it and has been doing it a long time. The misinterpretation of Romans 13 is just one example.

Bruce                   New World Order News


Romans 13: Setting It Straight
Chuck Baldwin
July 29, 2011

There is absolutely no doubt in my mind that the biggest reason  America is in the mess that it’s in today is directly due to the apathy  and indifference of the American pulpit. I am reminded of what Charles  Finney, the famed 19th Century revivalist, said: “If there is a decay of  conscience, the pulpit is responsible for it. If the public press lacks  moral discernment, the pulpit is responsible for it. If the church is  degenerate and worldly, the pulpit is responsible for it. If the world  loses its interest in Christianity, the pulpit is responsible for it. If  Satan rules in our halls of legislation, the pulpit is responsible for  it. If our politics become so corrupt that they very foundations of our  government are ready to fall away, the pulpit is responsible for it.”
Our second President, John Adams, put it this way: “It is the duty of  the clergy to accommodate their discourses to the times, to preach  against such sins as are most prevalent, and recommend such virtues as  are most wanted. For example, if exorbitant ambition and venality are  predominate, ought they not to warn their hearers against those vices?  If public spirit is much wanted, should they not inculcate this great  virtue? If the rights and duties of Christian magistrates and subjects  are disputed, should they not explain them, show their nature, ends,  limitations, and restrictions, howmuchsoever it may move the gall of  Massachusetts?”
Martin Luther, the great Protestant reformer, was even more direct.  He said, “If I profess with the loudest voice and clearest exposition  every portion of the truth of God except precisely that little point  which the world and the devil are at the moment attacking, I am not  confessing Christ, however boldly I may be professing Christ. Where the  battle rages, there the loyalty of the soldier is proved. And to be  steady on all the battle fields besides is merely flight and disgrace if  he flinches at that point.”
For at least the past half-century Christian pastors and churches  have been all but neutered. On the whole, they have ignored Christ’s  admonition to be the “salt of the earth,” and as a result, have failed  to do much of anything to preserve freedom’s Biblical Natural Law  principles in this great land. In fact, the average church is so sugary  sweet that it is downright sickening!
And the two main reasons for this dereliction of duty by America’s  pastors and churches are the IRS 501c3 non-profit tax status, which  turns the Lord’s church into a government corporation; and the  erroneous, fallacious interpretation of Romans chapter 13 that teaches  Christians are obligated to submit to government regardless of whether  government acts within the confines and jurisdiction of God’s law or  not. In reality, the American church today, on the whole, is not even a  church. It is a government corporation whose loyalty is offered first to  Caesar, not to Christ, and whose message is first politically correct  before it is Biblically correct.
It is more than interesting that some 95% of the 14,000 evangelical  churches that graced the German landscape during Hitler’s rise to power  bought into the identical misinterpretation of Romans 13 that the vast  majority (probably at least 95%) of the 300,000 evangelical churches  that grace America’s landscape have bought into today.
For example, one German pastor in 1933 gushed, “Christ has come to us  through Hitler.” In like manner, many pastors today foolishly preach  that God directs us through our President (whoever he is), or our  Supreme Court, or virtually any other government agency. And speaking of  the ignominious infatuation with government by Nazi-era German  clergymen, Erwin Lutzer, in his brilliant book, “Hitler’s Cross”, wrote,  “The swastika meant more to some pastors than did the Cross.” And there  is absolutely no question that many pastors in America today place far  more value on the US flag (symbolizing to them the power and authority  of the state) than they do the Cross of Christ or the teachings and  authority of the Holy Scriptures.
Without a doubt, tyrants of all stripes love to exploit this asinine  attitude of these sheepish, slavish preachers who idolize the state!  Lutzer quotes Hitler as saying, “The parsons will dig their own graves.  They will betray their God to us. They will betray anything for the sake  of their miserable jobs and incomes.” And that is exactly what many  pastors, deacons, elders, and churchmen are doing today: for the sake of  their paychecks, insurance premiums, and retirement benefits, they are  betraying the lawful authority of Christ to the tyrannical authority of  the state. And the bastardized teaching of Romans 13 is one of the major  tools by which this is being done.
Therefore, before we can see any significant return to legitimate  constitutional government in this country, the thinking and philosophy  of Christians and churches regarding Romans 13 must change. This is  absolutely obligatory!



POSTED JULY 28, 2011

WHAT HAVE YOU GOT TO HIDE?

This is a common question asked of citizens by police when suspected of a crime. Sometimes police ask to search your car, home or person without a warrant. When you object, the officer almost always asks you what you have to hide. This is not new. The Gestapo, East German Stasi, KGB and other oppresive police forces have always used this tactic of intimidation.

Now citizens are asking police what they have to hide. Below is a rather long article outlining a nationwide policy of arresting people making videos of police in various situations. Although police and non police regularly record everyone, everywhere without a warrant and without justification, courts are now beginning to uphold this dual standard in the charging of people with illegal wiretapping for recording police activities.

It is not necessary to read this whole article. It doesn't take long to understand the gist of it. I think, though, most are missing the point. They waste time and effort writing articles and going to the ACLU to help to enforce Constitutional rights. The problem is much larger. We, as a nation, are rapidly deteriorating into a police state. Millions of laws, procedures, policies, rules and regulations have been implemented to control citizens. Everyone is a law breaker. Everyone can be sent to jail. Laws are selectively enforced and rarely enforced on police or bureaucrats. The America of 1787 is lost. It can come back, but it will take a million times more determination than is present today.

Meanwhile, stay away from police if possible. If you're going to record something, use a hidden device. Be invisible to authorities. Do not trust the system. There are good people everywhere, but you cannot count on them being in control. Even with this, sooner or later, you will be required to submit or resist.

Bruce                    New World Order News


How Eavesdropping Laws Are Taking Away Our Best Defense Against Police Brutality

More and more people use their smartphones to record police misconduct. But laws against wiretapping are being used to intimidate and stop them.
July 27, 2011  |  
 

Over Memorial Day weekend this past May, residents of Miami Beach witnessed a horrific display of police brutality as 12 cops sprayed Raymond Herisse's car with 100 bullets, killing him. The shooting provoked outrage in the surrounding community, not only because of the murder, but because of what the police did afterward. 

Officers on the scene confiscated and smashed witnesses' cell phones; later, when they were confronted by the media, the police denied trying to destroy videos of the incident. 

But 35-year-old Narces Benoit removed his HTC EVO’s SIM card and hid it in his mouth. He later sold the video to CNN, placing the police in the awkward position of explaining why they lied about allegations of cell phone destruction. More importantly, the video showed at least two officers pointing guns at Benoit, demanding that he stop filming.

Police brutality takes many forms around the country on a regular basis, particularly in poor and minority neighborhoods. Sometimes, the only method of accountability is a victim’s word (if they are still alive) against that of an officer. Unsurprisingly, the police officer’s version of the story is often adequate for a judge to dismiss allegations of wrongdoing, unless there is hard evidence of misconduct, such as a video or audio recording, which can be useful to unravel conflicting versions of police-citizen encounters.

Due to advancements in technology, the average citizen carries a digital camera in his or her pocket or purse, creating a potential army of amateur videographers on every street corner. A quick YouTube search of "police brutality" lists endless videos, often cell phone footage, of what appear to be police acting with unnecessary and violent force. Some of those videos have served a crucial role in bringing charges against brutality that may have gone unaddressed had it not been for bystanders recording.

One would think the fear of videographers on every block would be a powerful deterrent to police misconduct. However, legislatures are not taking this newfound power against police abuse lightly. In at least three states, it is illegal to record any on-duty police officer, even if the encounter involves you and may be necessary to your defense, and even if the recording is on a public street where no expectation of privacy exists. The legal justification is usually based on the warped interpretation of existing wiretapping or eavesdropping laws with statutes against obstructing law enforcement sometimes cited.

Illinois, Massachusetts and Maryland are among the 12 states where all parties must consent for a recording to be legal. Since the police do not consent, the camera-wielder can be arrested and charged with a felony. Most all-party consent states (except Illinois and Massachusetts) include a "privacy provision" that says a violation occurs only when the offended party has a reasonable expectation that the conversation is private. This is meant to protect TV news crews and people who record public meetings — where it is obvious to all that recording is underway — from accidentally committing a felony.

Massachusetts and Illinois are the only states that do not recognize an expectation-to-privacy provision to their all-party consent laws. While courts in Massachusetts have generally held that secretly recording police is illegal, recording them openly is not. Illinois, on the other hand, is the only state where the legislature specifically amended the state's wiretapping law to make it illegal to record on-duty police officers without their consent, even in public.

Cases Keep Piling Up

Recording on-duty police officers has gained momentum in states around the country for some time now. But it's only in the last few years, after several high-profile incidents, that the topic has begun to generate nationwide headlines and debate.

Two of these incidents occurred in Maryland last year, just weeks apart.

One involved Jack McKenna, who was arrested by Prince George's county police last March and charged with assault and resisting arrest when he was out celebrating the University of Maryland basketball victory over Duke. Fortunately for him, his fellow Terps fans happened to record the encounter on their cell phones, showing riot police throwing McKenna against a wall and beating him with batons. Once the videos appeared on the Internet, Prince George's County suspended the officers and dropped the charges against McKenna.

The second incident took place last April, when Maryland State Trooper David Uhler pulled over Anthony Graber for speeding and reckless driving. Graber had swerved across several lanes and did at least one wheelie on his motorcycle while driving 80mph. Graber had a video camera mounted to his motorcycle helmet that was recording at the time of the stop, and captured footage of Uhler, dressed in plainclothes while yelling with his gun in hand.

Although Graber was only given a traffic ticket, he posted the video on YouTube to publicize Uhler's threatening behavior. Maryland State police responded by raiding Graber's home, confiscating his computer and charging him with two felonies. One was for violating Maryland's wiretapping law by recording a trooper without his consent, and the other was for "possession of an intercept device," a provision intended for bugs and wiretaps but in this case referred to Graber's video camera. As a result, Graber faced up to 16 years in prison for recording a police officer during a public traffic stop.

Graber's case was ultimately dismissed, as are almost all of these cases, on the grounds that on-duty cops have no such expectation of privacy, which is in accordance with every court in the country that has considered the issue. Because there is no legal justification, the charges are usually dropped or never filed at all. But that doesn't stop the arrests. Radley Balko points out that, more often than not, police arrest photographers for obstructing law enforcement even in states that have no wiretapping law:

    “In addition to arresting citizens with cameras for wiretapping, police can use vaguer catch-all charges, such as interfering with a police officer, refusing to obey a lawful order, or obstructing an arrest or police action. Such arrests are far more common. Even more frequent are incidents where police don’t make arrests but illegally confiscate cameras, delete photos and videos, or incorrectly warn camera-wielding citizens that they aren’t allowed to film.”

One such encounter took place earlier this year, when a California man, who recorded a police officer arresting someone at gunpoint down the street, found himself handcuffed as well. Lonell Duchine was videotaping the arrest on his cell phone from inside his garage, when an officer pulled up to his home and demanded the phone for evidence. Duchine refused, so the police officer arrested him, citing “police interference” for withholding evidence.

While illegal confiscation happens in a range of scenarios, from traffic stops to people's homes, the most famous example was on New Year’s day 2009, when Bay Area Rapid Transit (BART) Officer Johannes Mehserle shot 21-year-old Oscar Grant at point-blank range, as he lay face down in an Oakland subway station, allegedly resisting arrest. The incident captured the nation's attention not simply because an unarmed black man was publicly killed by a white police officer, but also because dozens of onlookers captured it on their cell phones for the world to see.

In California, police are not permitted to confiscate a phone unless the phone was used in a crime. Nonetheless, after the incident BART police attempted to confiscate the phones of subway riders, and even chased one camera-wielder onto a subway car. Had a bystander not been equipped with his cell phone, charges may not have been brought against Mehserle, demonstrating the crucial role video recording can play in accountability. Since then there have been multiple incidents of police brutality recorded by cell phones, which may have otherwise gone unaddressed.

The most pernicious prosecutions to date have taken place in Illinois, where the sentence for recording a police officer is considered a class 1 felony — on par with a rape charge — and can land a person behind bars for more than a decade.

Tiawonda Moore from Chicago, Illinois, faces up to 15 years in prison for using her Blackberry to record two Internal Affairs investigators who spoke to her inside police headquarters. She was there last August to file a sexual harassment complaint against another officer, who she alleges had fondled her and left his personal telephone number when he was at her home investigating a domestic dispute. She says the police department actively discouraged her from filing a report, so out of frustration, she began to record the conversations on her phone. Although the case initially received national media coverage, attention has since died down as 21-year-old Moore awaits a trial date that continues to be pushed back.

Michael Allison is another Illinois resident facing the wrath of the eavesdropping law. The 41-year-old mechanic from Bridgeport faces four counts of violating the eavesdropping law, which adds up to a possible 75-year sentence. Allison believed the local police were harassing him in retaliation for a lawsuit he'd filed against the city over a local zoning ordinance, so he began to record his conversations with them.

Allison was eventually charged with violating the zoning ordinance. When he was told there would be no record of his trial, he informed court officials that he would record his trial with a digital recorder. This prompted the judge to have him arrested on the day of his trial, for violating her right to privacy. After confiscating Allison's digital recorder, the police found the recordings between Allison and the cops.

Christopher Drew, a 60-year-old artist and teacher, is also being prosecuted for violating the eavesdropping law. Drew was arrested in December 2009 for selling art without a permit on the streets of Chicago. He recorded his arrest, and now faces four to 15 years for documenting the incident.

These are just a handful of cases that illustrate the danger that comes with recording police in public. Carlos Miller, a journalist who has been arrested twice for photographing the police, has documented hundreds of similar cases on his blog, Photography is Not a Crime.

What Do the Police Think?

In the most comprehensive article to date about recording the police —" The War on Cameras" — Radley Balko interviewed James Pasco, executive director of the national Fraternal Order of Police (FOP), which describes itself as "the world's largest organization of sworn law enforcement officers." Pasco argues that videotaping police officers in public should be illegal because it can intimidate officers from doing their jobs. Mark Donahue, president of FOP, concurs, telling the New York Times that his organization “absolutely supports” the eavesdropping act and was relieved that the ACLU's challenge filed last year failed, adding that allowing the audio recording of police officers while performing their duty “can affect how an officer does his job on the street.”

Police officers are not a monolith, so while there are many, like Pasco and Donahue, who support these laws, there are also many who doubtless oppose them. At the same time, police apprehension about being videotaped on the job is understandable, especially with the advancement in cell-phone technology increasing at record speed. Some also worry that their actions will be preserved and used against them in ways that weren't possible just a few years ago, while others are simply uncomfortable being videotaped.

However, when considering recent developments in police surveillance, Pasco's argument is rather baffling. In stark contrast to the laws banning citizens from monitoring police misconduct with recording devices, police officers are equipped with top-of-line surveillance cameras in their cars and on their uniforms. According to a recent AP report, hundreds of police departments across the country are equipping officers with tiny body cameras to record anything from a traffic stop to a hot vehicle pursuit to an unfolding violent crime. The mini cameras have even spawned a new cable reality TV series, "Police POV," which uses police video from Cincinnati, Chattanooga and Fort Smith, Ark.

The cameras are intended to provide more transparency and security to officers on the street and to reduce the number of misconduct complaints and potential lawsuits. Which begs the question: what is the difference between these cameras and the footage captured by citizens in public? Why is it acceptable for police officers to record, but not citizens? Aren't the uniform and dashboard cameras, which unlike citizen recordings document police actions all through the day, intimidating police from doing their jobs, just as Pasco suggested?

Unconstitutional

Pasco goes on to suggest that we have to "put faith and trust in our authority figures," which is the absolute antithesis of a functioning democracy and the US constitution, which rests on transparency and accountability.

As usual, the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) has taken the lead in challenging these laws. In August of last year, the ACLU of Illinois filed a federal lawsuit in Chicago challenging the Illinois Eavesdropping Act (ACLU v. Anita Alvarez), arguing that the act violates the First Amendment and has been used to thwart people who simply want to monitor police activity, including the ACLU itself. The Illinois law is unique in that it makes it a crime to record not only private but also public conversations made without consent of all parties. In the lawsuit, the ACLU pointed to six Illinois residents who have faced felony charges after being accused of violating the state’s eavesdropping law for recording police making arrests in public venues.

Although the lawsuit was dismissed in January, the ACLU has appealed the suit and expects to begin making oral arguments sometime in the fall. Adam Schwartz, senior staff attorney with the Illinois Chapter of the ACLU, explained why the eavesdropping law is unconstitutional:

    "The First Amendment protects the right to gather information for the purpose of sharing it with other people and for the purpose of using it to petition government for redress of grievances. And so for a long time courts have protected the right to record by various means what government officials are doing in public, so the press can publish that and so that citizens can use it to petition government.  

    "When we talk about police officers doing their jobs in public, we’re talking about very important government activity which is often used properly but sometimes is abused, and it’s very important that citizens have the ability to document what police are doing so they can seek improvement in police policy and the like… therefore, the first amendment protects the right to make audio-recordings of on duty police officers who are doing their jobs in public places."  

Schwartz went on to compare audio-recording to other forms of documentation that, although less efficient, are not illegal:

    "We believe that a police officer who is doing their job in a public place does not have an expectation of privacy.  Even the police can see that if they’re arresting somebody on a corner, other people can watch….they don’t dispute that someone can stand a small distance away and watch, or that the person who’s watching can take out a pen and take notes or on what they’re seeing, or that they can take photographs of what they’re seeing or that they can make a silent video recording of what they’re seeing. The addition of the audio is a very powerful way for citizens to ensure that police officers are turning square corners."

Schwartz also emphasized that resolving disputing testimonies with citizen recording, while important, is not the only benefit to overturning the eavesdropping law:

    "If police officers are doing their jobs in public places, for example policing a demonstration and something goes awry, it is very valuable for there to be a strong record, including audio of what happened, so that if there is a need to change the rules, the public can go to the government and say "look what happened, change the rules about how police officers are enforcing the peace at a political demonstration."

The court's decision in this case is said to be critically important in setting a precedent that will either protect or endanger newsgatherers‘ constitutional rights to monitor and record police misconduct. Schwartz said the ACLU is "cautiously optimistic" about the eventual ruling, which is expected to be handed down sometime in 2012.
















Home|BRUCE'S HEALTHY COFFEE|SURVIVAL|911 INFO|VACCINE DANGERS|POLICE BRUTALITY|CULT CONNECTIONS|ILLEGAL IMMIGRATIONAND YOU SHALL CRY OUT IN THAT DAY BECAUSE OF THE KING THAT YOU HAVE CHOSEN FOR YOURSELVES, AND THE LORD WILL NOT HEAR YOU IN THAT DAY. 1ST SAMUEL 8:18