

The Great Energy Challenge

http://www.greatenergychallengeblog.com
	National Geographic
Sun, 04 Sep 2011 03:52:54 +0000
en
hourly
1
http://wordpress.org/?v=3.1.4

White House Sit-Ins End, but Keystone XL Fight Isn’t Over
http://www.greatenergychallengeblog.com/blog/2011/09/03/white-house-sit-ins-end-but-keystone-xl-fight-isnt-over/
		http://www.greatenergychallengeblog.com/blog/2011/09/03/white-house-sit-ins-end-but-keystone-xl-fight-isnt-over/#comments
Sun, 04 Sep 2011 03:52:09 +0000
Christina Nunez






http://www.greatenergychallengeblog.com/?p=3680

More than 200 people were reportedly arrested Saturday at the White House on the final day of a two-week stretch of sit-ins against the planned Keystone XL pipeline, which would carry oil from the tar sands of Canada to refineries in Texas.
(Related: “Is Canadian Oil Bound for China Via Pipeline to Texas?“)
Tar Sands Action, the lead organizer of the White House protests, said on its website that 1,252 had been arrested over the course of the event. 
The Obama administration has said it will decide before the end of the year whether to approve the $7 billion, 1,700-mile pipeline, which proponents say will boost U.S. energy security and create jobs. Opponents say the project is an unnecessary endangerment of wildlife and water supply and continues U.S. dependence on fossil fuels.
The State Department, in its final environmental impact statement on the project Aug. 26, found that the project would have “limited adverse environmental impacts.” It will hold a series of public meetings on Keystone XL at the end of September. 
]]>
http://www.greatenergychallengeblog.com/blog/2011/09/03/white-house-sit-ins-end-but-keystone-xl-fight-isnt-over/feed/
0


Tar Sands Pipeline Gets Green Light in Environmental Review
http://www.greatenergychallengeblog.com/blog/2011/09/01/tar-sands-pipeline-gets-green-light-in-environmental-review/
		http://www.greatenergychallengeblog.com/blog/2011/09/01/tar-sands-pipeline-gets-green-light-in-environmental-review/#comments
Thu, 01 Sep 2011 21:13:16 +0000
Mason Inman














http://www.greatenergychallengeblog.com/?p=3676

Hundreds of protesters—including famed climate researcher James Hansen—have been arrested in protests in front of the White House over the past two weeks, in an attempt to stop the construction of a pipeline from Canada to Texas to carry diluted tar sands to Gulf Coast refineries, mainly over concerns about greenhouse gas emissions and risks of tainting a nearby water aquifer.
The U.S. State Department has been weighing whether to approve the pipeline, and under what conditions. In a major step last week, the State Department published its final environmental review, which said the pipeline would have “no significant impact to most resources” along its path, assuming “normal operation.”
U.S. Secretary of Energy Steven Chu said energy security concerns could help the pipeline win approval on the grounds that importing oil from Canada is preferable to imports from the Middle East—an argument echoed in a Washington Post editorial by veteran business reporter Robert Samuelson.
(Related: “Is Canadian Oil Bound for China Via Pipeline to Texas?“)
Shale Gas Shakedown
The Marcellus shale deposits—so far, the biggest site for hydraulic fracturing, or fracking—may contain far less gas than recently projected by the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA), according to a new assessment by the U.S. Geological Survey.
Although the new estimate is higher than the U.S. Geological Survey’s own 2002 estimate, it is much lower than an estimate EIA published earlier this year. In response, the EIA said it will downgrade their next estimate—perhaps by as much as 80 percent. But The Washington Post reports there may be more to these numbers.
In light of allegations that petroleum companies have overstated how much gas they could get out of shale deposits, the New York State Attorney’s Office is investigating whether companies “overbooked” reserves. Earlier this summer, federal lawmakers called on the Securities and Exchange Commission, the EIA and the Government Accountability Office to investigate industry estimates.
Rise and Fall of Solar, Wind
China achieved a meteoric rise in wind power over the past five years, and last year pulled ahead of the U.S. to become the country with the largest installed capacity of wind turbines.
At the same time, the growth of China’s wind industry is slowing down due to over capacity and withdrawal of subsidies, among other causes. And some of China’s largest wind turbine manufacturers reported falling profits due to fierce competition, as has been seen in the solar panel industry.
Solar manufacturers in the U.S. and Europe have been struggling to compete with panels from Asia, China especially. Two weeks ago, Evergreen declared bankruptcy, followed by Solyndra this week. Both companies had been touted by the Obama administration and local officials as models for the green economy. New York-based SpectraWatt, a solar spin-out from computer chip manufacturer Intel,also filed for bankruptcy.
Meanwhile, China is pushing ahead with plans to greatly expand their installations of solar power, doubling their targeted installations over the next decade. By 2015, they aim to have 3 gigawatts installed—10 times as much as they had last year—and by 2020, 50 gigawatts.
Despite such difficulties in the market, the United States’ net exports of solar power products more than doubled in 2010 compared with the year before, reaching $1.8 billion. Total U.S. exports of solar products rose 83 percent, to $5.6 billion, in part because Asia is importing equipment for manufacturing solar panels.
(Related Post: “A Silver Lining to Declining Solar Prices“)
Burying the Problem
The first industrial-scale carbon capture and storage (CCS) plant in the U.S. broke ground in Illinois, with the aim of capturing emissions from a large corn ethanol plant. Work on the plant began just after a U.S. utility canceled its plan for CCS on a West Virginia coal plant.
In Canada, a CCS plant for capturing emissions from tar sands processing may move ahead after Canada’s government recently agreed to underwrite two-thirds of the $1.35-billion project’s cost.
The Climate Post offers a rundown of the week in climate and energy news. It is produced each Thursday for National Geographic’s News Watch by Duke University’s Nicholas Institute for Environmental Policy Solutions.
 
]]>
http://www.greatenergychallengeblog.com/blog/2011/09/01/tar-sands-pipeline-gets-green-light-in-environmental-review/feed/
0


Awards for Change: How Prizes Can Help Us Achieve Energy Goals
http://www.greatenergychallengeblog.com/blog/2011/09/01/awards-for-change-how-prizes-can-help-us-achieve-energy-goals/
		http://www.greatenergychallengeblog.com/blog/2011/09/01/awards-for-change-how-prizes-can-help-us-achieve-energy-goals/#comments
Thu, 01 Sep 2011 20:24:07 +0000
Daniel Kammen






http://www.greatenergychallengeblog.com/?p=3664

What will it take to foster and spread the ideas and practices needed for sustainable development? One thing that has stirred innovative thinking are the positive results of recent prize competitions. 
Perhaps the most notable of these–so far–has been the Ansari X Prize. The Ansari X Prize was a space competition in which the X Prize Foundation offered a US$10 million reward for the first non-government organization to launch the same reusable manned spacecraft into space twice within two weeks. It was modeled after early 20th-century aviation prizes, and aimed to spur development of low-cost spaceflight. There is real brilliance in this idea, but in the specific terms of the prize, which prompted other competitors – each of whom spent far more than the prize money. The prize, claimed by Scaled Composites in 2004 for its Tier One project, launched or accelerated a diverse portfolio of private space ventures, “spaceports,” and an industry now worth billions.
Since 2004, prizes have been launched. One technology-focused competition is the U.S. government’s i6 Green Challenge, which will reward $1 million to each of six teams around the country with the most innovative ideas to drive technology commercialization and entrepreneurship in support of a green innovation economy, increased U.S. competitiveness and new jobs. There are others with concrete objectives to address key issues in ecological conservation, social networking, transparent national governance, and democratic transitions of power (for example, the Mo Ibrahim Prize).
Can this idea work in energy, climate, and development?
A recent UN conference brought together foundations, multinational groups, and development agencies to examine what sort of prizes might stimulate innovation in climate protection and sustainable development. Why do some prizes succeed, while others have problems? How can we create successful ones for approaches to energy, climate, and development?
First, there is a shortage of private sector investment in sustainable development and energy access. This needs innovative new approaches, which well-designed prizes for both local and global solutions could generate.
There are important lessons to learn, however. In 2007 Sir Richard Branson and Vice President Al Gore launched a $25 million climate prize. The specific term of the prize, which has not yet been claimed, is for an approach that “will remove at least one billion tonnes of carbon per year from the atmosphere.” This is urgently needed–but as Branson and Gore are finding, climate ‘solutions’ can be both hard to find and hard to verify.
In development and energy, many attractive approaches warrant plans and proposals, and this blog post is a call for submissions and discussion. 
Technology-specific advances are needed, such as: low-cost and robust electricity meters for homes in both rural and urban areas in developing nations; integrated solar panels that cost little more than a regular roof; ‘green energy systems’ that make mini-grids and distributed energy technologies much more accessible and commonplace; and affordable home-based gassifier units to turn household and industry waste into energy.
Implementation and management prizes are needed to move ideas from experiments to the mainstream. These could include leadership prizes for the dissemination of improved cookstoves or energy-efficient appliances, creation of on- and off-grid lighting solutions, and implementation of market reforms that decrease fossil-fuel subsidies or reduce market barriers for clean energy technologies. 
The International Ashden Awards, for example, give cash prizes for local sustainable energy initiatives. This year’s top prize winner, Toyola Energy, produces efficient charcoal cookstoves for households in Ghana. (Applications for the 2012 awards are due by October 18.)
(More About Toyola and Clean Cookstoves: “Protecting Health and the Planet With Clean Cookstoves“)
The critical area, inspired by the Mo Ibrahim prize, is one that requires very careful planning but poses an incredible opportunity to spur political commitment: green leadership awards. Guide a feed-in-tariff through the legislative process? Develop a verification system to reward green businesses for energy efficiency upgrades? These would be great award candidates, but the real hope in this blog post is to generate a community of thought-leaders designing and critiquing ideas.
Daniel Kammen’s posts appear here and on the Development in a Changing Climate blog at the World Bank, where he is chief technical specialist for renewable energy and energy efficiency. He is an adviser to National Geographic’s Great Energy Challenge initiative.
]]>
http://www.greatenergychallengeblog.com/blog/2011/09/01/awards-for-change-how-prizes-can-help-us-achieve-energy-goals/feed/
2


Yellowstone Spill and the Trouble with Pipelines
http://www.greatenergychallengeblog.com/blog/2011/09/01/yellowstone-spill-and-the-trouble-with-pipelines/
		http://www.greatenergychallengeblog.com/blog/2011/09/01/yellowstone-spill-and-the-trouble-with-pipelines/#comments
Thu, 01 Sep 2011 16:36:23 +0000
Robert Williams








http://www.greatenergychallengeblog.com/?p=3244

Nearly two months after a rupture at ExxonMobil’s Silvertip oil pipeline spilled at least 1,000 barrels of crude oil into the Yellowstone River, there is no end in sight to the cleanup efforts. The company recently said that the process has been more difficult than expected, and estimated that cleanup would continue for several months beyond the initial completion target of early September. 
According to the EPA, more than 1,000 people are now involved in cleaning up the spill, an effort that will cost a reported $42.6 million. (The spilled oil itself was valued at $100,000). 
Meanwhile, the state of Montana has given ExxonMobil the go-ahead to replace the broken pipeline at 40 feet beneath the riverbed, rather than its original depth of five feet.
Energy transportation can be a dangerous, dirty business. In 2010, pipeline spills and explosions killed 22 people, released 173,103 barrels of petroleum into the environment, and caused nearly a billion dollars in damage in the United States. Pipelines transporting natural gas and hazardous liquids (a catch-all term including crude oil) are susceptible to failure from many sources, both man-made and natural. America’s existing pipelines could circle the Earth 100 times. Do the economic benefits of building even more pipelines outweigh the potential costs?
With increasing production from Canadian oil sands and from natural gas trapped in shale formations throughout the U.S. and Canada, energy companies have turned to building new pipelines as a way of increasing profits. However, as demonstrated by the Silvertip spill, these pipelines can have unintended costs. They put vast stretches of land, much of it otherwise pristine wilderness, at increased risk of a spill. That the Silvertip Pipeline’s initial depth of five feet exceeded U.S. burial regulations, yet still failed, calls into question the efficacy of current safety requirements. Given the difficulty of monitoring and regulating U.S. pipelines, the proposed $7 billion Keystone XL pipeline project–set to run from Canada to Texas–naturally has met with opposition from groups who fear water pollution and other ill effects.
Additionally, plans to export natural gas freed by the controversial fracking method could increase domestic energy prices. Because the North American energy market is largely insulated from the global market, soaring demand in Asia largely has not affected natural gas prices. Liquefied natural gas (LNG) export terminals on the West Coast, fed by new pipelines, promise significant profits for energy companies at the cost of increased prices at home. This has led a unique coalition of environmental activists, landowners, local utilities, farmers, and industrial energy users to oppose plans for two LNG terminals on the Oregon Coast.
While pipelines can have significant economic benefits, they pose problems that call into question the wisdom of their continued construction. At a minimum, the United States must reexamine its safety standards to mitigate the risk of future pipeline accidents. In the end, the difficulties associated with energy transportation underscore the necessity of transitioning away from dependence on fossil fuels. Such a transition may be too late for broken pipelines like the Silvertip, but as the controversy over Keystone XL shows, huge decisions lie ahead regarding American energy infrastructure.
]]>
http://www.greatenergychallengeblog.com/blog/2011/09/01/yellowstone-spill-and-the-trouble-with-pipelines/feed/
0


A Silver Lining in Declining Solar Prices
http://www.greatenergychallengeblog.com/blog/2011/08/31/a-silver-lining-in-declining-solar-prices/
		http://www.greatenergychallengeblog.com/blog/2011/08/31/a-silver-lining-in-declining-solar-prices/#comments
Wed, 31 Aug 2011 17:50:04 +0000
Arno Harris





http://www.greatenergychallengeblog.com/?p=3635

Quarterly earnings numbers are out for many publicly traded solar manufacturing companies, and you’d be forgiven for thinking the solar industry is in trouble. Why? Because the global price of solar panels is falling, putting pressure on profit margins, and that spells bad news for manufacturers’ earnings.
This is a reminder that what is good for a market isn’t necessarily good for all market participants. Declining prices mean only those with the lowest manufacturing costs (and business models that work on much thinner margins) will earn the profits necessary to survive. Those that can’t will fall by the wayside.
The recent news that Solyndra, a California-based solar tech firm that had received a $535 million federal loan, is laying off 1,100 workers and filing for bankruptcy is a case in point. Solyndra had a compelling technology when solar modules cost $3.25/watt. But the technology didn’t prove out in a world where costs are rapidly approaching $1/watt. This is the Darwinian process by which markets reward innovation and starve stagnation. And it is this process that will ultimately deliver cost-effective solutions to climate change.
A 70-percent decline in solar panel prices over the last 24 months has many in the industry forecasting a brutal shakeout ahead. I’d argue that this picture misses an important point. It’s myopic to focus solely on earnings of one segment of the industry. There’s a silver lining for the world in declining solar prices: cheaper solar power.
The less solar power costs, the more favorably it compares to conventional power, and the more attractive it becomes to utilities and energy users around the globe. Utility-scale solar power can now be delivered in California at prices well below $100/MWh ($0.10/kWh) less than most other peak generators, even those running on low-cost natural gas. Lower solar module costs also stimulate demand from consumer markets where the cost of solar compares very favorably to retail electric rates.
Bottom line: declining prices mean ever-growing demand for solar power. That means an ever bigger role for solar in our generating mix and an increasing impact addressing climate change.
Many may see today’s hand-wringing about solar stocks as an indication we need to go back to past policies of rich direct subsidies for solar. The reality is “the way things used to be” isn’t a viable option. Government appetite for direct solar subsidies is waning and the industry must make the transition to electricity market demand.
That’s not necessarily a bad thing. Just as there’s a silver lining to declining module prices, there’s also an important upside to the broader changes happening in our industry: the companies that emerge successfully from our shifting subsidy landscape will be the very companies that help usher us into an era of grid parity, where solar competes on equal footing with gas, coal, and other traditional power sources.
But that’s only if we play our cards right, both as an industry and as a nation. As I’ve written before, changes to key policies — specifically, those that impact how projects are financed — are critical to developing a strong and competitive solar PV market. Ultimately, the leaders that overcome today’s crisis will be those that can tap the full potential of competitive demand, capturing massive scale as solar becomes a part of the mainstream energy supply.
]]>
http://www.greatenergychallengeblog.com/blog/2011/08/31/a-silver-lining-in-declining-solar-prices/feed/
3


Everything You’ve Heard About Oil and Energy Security is Wrong
http://www.greatenergychallengeblog.com/blog/2011/08/30/everything-youve-heard-about-oil-and-energy-security-is-wrong/
		http://www.greatenergychallengeblog.com/blog/2011/08/30/everything-youve-heard-about-oil-and-energy-security-is-wrong/#comments
Tue, 30 Aug 2011 14:53:22 +0000
Glenn Hurowitz



http://www.greatenergychallengeblog.com/?p=3629

If there’s a single idea that the oil industry has peddled to persuade the Obama administration to approve the controversial Keystone XL tar sands pipeline, it’s this: tar sands oil might be more polluting than even dirty old regular oil, but it’s better to get our energy from our ally Canada than from unstable oil suppliers in the Middle East or elsewhere.
In practice, the opposite is true: drilling in North America is the single greatest threat to our nation’s energy security.
Here’s the reality: protecting the United States’ energy security means keeping our continent’s oil in the ground for when we need it in an emergency.  The United States and Canada combined hold less than five percent of the world’s proven oil reserves. Thanks in part to expanded domestic drilling during the Obama administration, we’re depleting those reserves at a high rate. That means we have far less oil to fall back on in the event of true emergency, like an oil embargo or a major war when access to foreign oil supplies becomes difficult or even impossible. If we’re really concerned about security, tar sands oil should be a last-gap, man-the-barricades option – something we as a society hope we never have to use. That’s true to an extent for our domestic supplies of oil in general, whether offshore Arctic oil or the dregs left over at the bottom of the “stripper wells” that dot the Great Plains. We should leave them aside now, and hope that by the time we get into a serious security pickle, we’ve created a 100 percent clean energy economy that avoids the awful choice pundits seem to love to imagine between security, growth, and a living planet.
To understand how urgent it is that we curtail domestic drilling, consider this: if the United States were cut off today from all sources except Canada, we’d have only eight years left at current consumption levels. And that amount gets lower every day as the government issues additional domestic drilling leases.
Looking at domestic production as a threat to national security rather than something that boosts it may seem to turn conventional wisdom on its head, but in fact it’s how domestic oil drilling was viewed almost as soon as large Middle East supplies came online in the post World War II years.
Following this “conservation theory,” the federal government and others pushed hard to tap new Middle Eastern oil supplies, primarily so we wouldn’t deplete our own. “If we ever got into another World War it is quite possible that we would not have access to reserves held in the Middle East, but in the meantime use of those reserves would prevent the depletion of our own, a depletion which may be serious within the next fifteen years,” wrote powerful World War II Navy Secretary James Forrestal, summarizing the postwar security consensus.
It’s important to contrast this depletion reality with the old canard that the oil industry and its backers continue to push: that drilling domestically somehow reduces the flow of money to the Middle East and other unstable oil suppliers. In practice, basic oil industry economics show the opposite. Because Middle Eastern and Venezuelan oil is so much cheaper to produce and more plentiful than remaining domestic oil reserves, those countries can almost always outcompete domestic U.S. competitors and still maintain their enormous profit margins and high levels of production. Saudi and Iraqi oil, for instance, costs just $4-$6 per barrel to produce with another $2-$3 tacked on for transportation costs (there are similar costs for Iranian. They will always be able to beat, for instance, productions costs for tar sands oil clock in at a minimum of $30 per barrel, with similar costs for other domestic sources. To be sure, there are limits to how much oil even Saudi Arabia can draw at any given time without undermining its long term production capacity, but it and other major oil producers are well within this barrier and retain enormous “swing” production capacity.
Of course, there’s no doubt that our addiction to oil props up petrocracies and funds terror groups.  But expanding domestic production, especially through carbon-intense tar sands development, will do little or nothing to change that even as it imposes serious environmental damage on our continent’s great natural treasures and worsens climate change.
What we need to do instead is move as rapidly as possible to get off oil entirely by fully implementing and further tightening the Obama administration’s strong fuel efficiency standards, putting a price on carbon pollution, ending oil subsidies, electrifying our vehicle fleet with clean energy, boost mass transit, and use the full force of our diplomacy to get other major consuming countries like China to do the same.
That will create true American energy security without setting off a carbon bomb that threatens the entire planet, USA very much included.
]]>
http://www.greatenergychallengeblog.com/blog/2011/08/30/everything-youve-heard-about-oil-and-energy-security-is-wrong/feed/
1


Geoengineering: The GAO Assesses ‘Plan B’
http://www.greatenergychallengeblog.com/blog/2011/08/29/geoengineering-the-gao-assesses-plan-b/
		http://www.greatenergychallengeblog.com/blog/2011/08/29/geoengineering-the-gao-assesses-plan-b/#comments
Mon, 29 Aug 2011 18:42:23 +0000
Scott Bittle and Jean Johnson






http://www.greatenergychallengeblog.com/?p=3603

The idea that the only way to deal with how humans are changing the climate is to have scientists and engineers figure out a way to change it back again has attracted some clever monikers over the last few years. Journalists and bloggers have called geoengineering everything from “the MacGyver-ish solution” to “Plan B” to “the panic button.”
Last year, The New America Foundation held a conference that asked whether it was “the horrifying idea whose time has come.” When Stephen Dubner and Steven Levitt devoted a chapter to geoengineering in their book SuperFreakonomics, they ended up having to defend themselves from accusations that they were climate deniers. As Dubner wrote in response: “If we weren’t convinced that global warming was worth worrying about, we wouldn’t have written a chapter about proposed solutions.”
For a scientific question, the idea of geoengineering (and it is mainly an idea at this point) has been a kind of emotional litmus test. Whether you think it’s as clever as MacGyver or as dumb as his easily distracted Saturday Night Live parody, MacGruber seems to depend more on whether you consider yourself an environmentalist or in the “drill baby drill” camp.

Now the U.S. Government Accountability Office has issued a report assessing the state of “climate engineering technologies, focusing on their technical status, future directions for research on them, and potential responses.”  The analysts at the GAO combed through the scientific literature and convened panels of top scientists, engineers, and policymakers to help them appraise whether geoengineering proposals are workable and safe. The report looks at the two main strands of work:
•	ideas for removing carbon dioxide from the atmosphere—basically, we put it up there, so we need to figure out how to take it out.
•	ideas for “solar radiation management” to “scatter or reflect sunlight.” Here, the suggestions range from injecting “sulfate aerosols into the stratosphere to scatter incoming solar radiation” to painting rooftops and pavement light colors to reflect sunlight.
(Related National Geographic Stories: “The Quest to Capture Carbon Dioxide” and “Carbon Recycling: Mining the Air for Fuel”)
The GAO’s conclusions? None of these ideas is anywhere near ready for prime time—or to use the GAO’s more measured phrasing, they are “currently immature, many with potentially negative consequences.” In fact, many of the experts the GAO consulted warned that risk management should be built into future studies, since there are both political and environmental issues if anything goes wrong. What’s needed now, the report suggests, is research to determine whether ideas like these are really feasible and whether the risks and unknowns can be reduced.
One of us participated in one of the review panels (to help the GAO team consider public opinion on the issue) and was struck by how thorny and complicated these proposals would be and why more research is so necessary. Take the idea of cloud brightening, or injecting material into the clouds to help reflect the strength of the sun. There’s the question of whether the idea actually works to help cool the Earth. There’s the question of whether it could have negative consequences along with the intended ones.  Some of the current research suggests that doing this might “greatly reduce summer precipitation in places such as India and northern China.”
Then there are a whole range of practical questions. How would you get countries around the world to agree on this strategy? What do you do if some country decided to go ahead on its own, even though others don’t agree?  How often would you have to do it? Do we even have enough planes to conduct the sorties that would be required to get it done?
But given the potential devastation unchecked global warming could unleash on humanity (and given the likelihood that someone, somewhere will probably act on one of these ideas, even though it hasn’t been well-vetted), the GAO’s advice that we need to know more about how they would work and what the risks are seems undeniably sensible.
We also applaud the GAO for including an assessment of public opinion in their study. Most Americans don’t know much about geoengineering, and many are quick to wonder about the downsides. But most are also remarkably open to the idea that we need to know more about it before we decide to accept it or reject it.
For us, the GAO report raises another important point for environmental and energy issues overall. We need more impartial, “let’s take a look at what we know and don’t know” work in other areas too. There is a lot of hyperventilating about nuclear power, clean coal, using “fracking” to drill for natural gas, and the real prospects for much wider use of wind and solar. In all these areas, having an independent group sift through the research and describe the options, risks, and trade-offs for the rest of us would be a public service.
Of course, there are some human beings who reject any information that doesn’t support their pre-existing point of view, but based on what we’ve seen in the public opinion research, most Americans aren’t in that camp. Despite all the hoopla about climate science denial, only 19 percent of Americans say global warming is “not a problem at all,” and 7 in 10 (including 55 percent of Republicans) say they want the federal government to “regulate the release of greenhouse gases from sources like power plants, cars and factories in an effort to reduce global warming.”
In fact, we’re convinced that most Americans might welcome a pause in the fire-breathing rhetoric on this issue and others. There is a huge swath of the public that is eager to have fair-minded experts help them understand what’s at stake. And on geoengineering, there is plenty at stake—far too much to risk anything less than careful thought.
]]>
http://www.greatenergychallengeblog.com/blog/2011/08/29/geoengineering-the-gao-assesses-plan-b/feed/
0


Libya’s Revolution Could Provide Stimulus Through Cheaper Oil
http://www.greatenergychallengeblog.com/blog/2011/08/27/libya%e2%80%99s-revolution-could-provide-stimulus-through-cheaper-oil/
		http://www.greatenergychallengeblog.com/blog/2011/08/27/libya%e2%80%99s-revolution-could-provide-stimulus-through-cheaper-oil/#comments
Sat, 27 Aug 2011 15:03:36 +0000
Mason Inman














http://www.greatenergychallengeblog.com/?p=3597

After rebel forces swept into Libya’s capital, Tripoli, the country may be able to start to ramp oil production and exports again, which many analysts hope will bring down oil prices.
Libya claims Africa’s largest proven oil reserves, and was producing about 1.6 million barrels a day when the production suddenly dropped to near zero in February. Many analysts said it will take two to three years for Libya’s oil production to recover to previous levels, and by year’s end they may only be producing a quarter to a third as much as before.
Even before rebels had taken over Moammar Gadhafi’s compound, oil companies were preparing to return to the country, which they left months before.
So far, though, the price has been up and down, in part because of anticipation of the outcome of a summit this week, which may result in a new round of quantitative easing, which would likely drive down the value of the dollar.
Trading Leaks
To try to understand how much speculators are driving oil prices, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission has been looking into “excessive speculation.” Earlier this year, five traders were charged with making $50 million off speculation.
Sen. Bernie Sanders, a long-time critic of oil speculation, became frustrated with the pace of investigations and leaked the records of many trades.
Unconventional Contention
While dozens were in jail in Washington, D.C., after protests to oppose the construction of another pipeline carrying tar sands products from Canada to the U.S., a New York Times editorial argued against the pipeline because of high greenhouse gas emissions from tar sands operations. Canadian officials, meanwhile, stepped up lobbying on the Keystone XL pipeline project’s behalf.
Producing natural gas from shale deposits using hydraulic fracturing has also been under scrutiny for its greenhouse gas emissions, and now a new study argues Marcellus Shale natural gas has slightly higher emissions than conventional natural gas, but fewer emissions than coal.
West Virginia issued emergency rules to regulate horizontal drilling, which the governor hoped was a first step to more permanent regulations for this drilling.
Dark Days in America, Brighter Elsewhere
With budget woes, spending cuts, and more spending cuts scheduled to be made over the coming years, it appears renewable energy in the U.S. is entering “dark days,” reported GreenBiz.
But renewables are gaining increasing traction elsewhere. In Brazil, in a large power auction, wind emerged as the cheapest source of electricity, beating out natural gas and hydroelectric power. The contracts could lead to the construction of 1.9 gigawatts of new wind farms.
Japan is expected to pass a renewable energy bill that would introduce a feed-in tariff to make renewables more attractive, and set down in law the government’s target of cutting greenhouse gas emissions 25 percent (compared with 1990 levels) by 2020. To cope with the Fukushima disaster, though, Japan has boosted its use of fossil fuels in the short term.
Germany’s national rail company, which is the country’s biggest electricity consumer, is also moving toward renewables, planning to quit fossil fuels by 2050.
The Billionth Car
The future is bright for electric cars, according to a forecast from Pike Research, which said worldwide sales are likely to grow to 5.2 million by 2017, more than 50 times this year’s estimated sales.
However, even then electric cars would make up a tiny fraction of all cars, with more than one billion on the road as of 2010, a new study said. About half of the recent growth in cars has been in China, which has higher efficiency standards than the U.S., but the country is showing little interest in hybrids and electric cars.
Scientists Scrutinized 
Scientists working on climate change have been under scrutiny, with a polar bear researcher being suspended from his job for the U.S. government.
Another researcher came under fire after the “Climategate” leak of e-mails. He was cleared earlier this year in an investigation by his university, and now has been cleared in a second investigation by the National Science Foundation.
The Climate Post offers a rundown of the week in climate and energy news. It is produced each Thursday for National Geographic’s News Watch by Duke University’s Nicholas Institute for Environmental Policy Solutions.
 
]]>
http://www.greatenergychallengeblog.com/blog/2011/08/27/libya%e2%80%99s-revolution-could-provide-stimulus-through-cheaper-oil/feed/
0


Virginia Power Plant Initiating Cold Shutdown for Inspections
http://www.greatenergychallengeblog.com/blog/2011/08/24/virginia-power-plant-continues-post-quake-inspections/
		http://www.greatenergychallengeblog.com/blog/2011/08/24/virginia-power-plant-continues-post-quake-inspections/#comments
Wed, 24 Aug 2011 22:38:26 +0000
Christina Nunez






http://www.greatenergychallengeblog.com/?p=3566

The North Anna nuclear power plant in Louisa, Va., has restored its normal power supply after a 5.8-magnitude earthquake forced it to operate on back-up generators briefly Tuesday, but the plant remains offline as inspections continue. 
Jim Norvelle, spokesman for plant operator Dominion Virginia Power, said Wednesday that the plant “will be shut down until it is safe to restart,” though he could not say when exactly that would be. Both reactors at the North Anna plant will be going into a cold shutdown this week, which changes the atmospheric conditions of the coolant system to make it safe for inspectors to walk through the containment structure and check for any quake damage.  
The 36-year-old facility, which is located eight miles west of the quake’s epicenter in Mineral, Va., normally generates enough electricity for 450,000 homes. Dominion is meeting power demand in the area through its other stations and through energy purchase from the grid, Norvelle said, adding that the mild weather had lightened energy demand.
Four back-up diesel generators supplied power to the station when it lost power from the grid, and emergency cooling pumps were activated. One of the diesel generators had to be taken offline to repair a coolant leak, according to plant operator Dominion Power, but a fifth generator was brought on in its place.  
Grid power was restored later in the day, and the plant downgraded its emergency status from Alert to Unusual Event on Wednesday before canceling it altogether.
The Mineral earthquake and the North Anna shutdown were a disturbing reminder that serious seismic risk for U.S. nuclear plants is not confined to the West Coast. Norvelle said that though there have been a number of smaller seismic events in the region that had been felt at North Anna, “this is the first time we’ve had an earthquake cause the units to trip offline.”
Notably, part of North Anna’s back-up generator plan was among the concerns pointed out by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission just three months ago, when the NRC conducted inspections of all U.S. nuclear plants in the wake of the disaster at Japan’s Fukushima Daiichi plant.
“The inspector determined that during a loss of power scenario there was no procedural guidance to obtain on-site diesel fuel from an underground tank located away from the plant protected area,” the post-Fukushima report said. 
In addition, the report noted that one of the plant’s portable generators was not functional when tested, though that was not one of the large, non-portable diesel generators used on Tuesday.
Among other concerns related to seismic risk, inspectors found other small vulnerabilities at the plant, such as seismic floodwalls being located in a non-seismic building and certain safety equipment that was not designed to withstand an earthquake. 
Joey Ledford, spokesman for the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, said that the lack of instructions for obtaining generator fuel at North Anna was one of “a number of minor issues” identified at the plant in May. But he called it a “low-priority issue,” saying that the plant had a seven-day supply of diesel fuel for its back-up generators. Likewise, Norvelle said that none of the issues identified by the NRC in May were a factor in Tuesday’s response, and that all safety operations went as expected.
Coincidentally, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission had scheduled for Wednesday the announcement of a new senior resident inspector for the North Anna plant. At least two resident inspectors are assigned to every U.S. nuclear plant, according to the NRC. Despite the timing of that release, the new inspector had been on site at North Anna for several weeks, and the announcement was unrelated to the earthquake, Ledford said.
Twelve other nuclear plants along the East Coast declared Unusual Event status Tuesday, the NRC’s lowest emergency classification. Those plants are operational and being monitored by their own personnel, the NRC said in a press release.
(Related: 10 Oldest Nuclear Plants in the United States)
]]>
http://www.greatenergychallengeblog.com/blog/2011/08/24/virginia-power-plant-continues-post-quake-inspections/feed/
0


Confirmed: U.S. Emissions Up in 2010
http://www.greatenergychallengeblog.com/blog/2011/08/23/co2-emissions-2010/
		http://www.greatenergychallengeblog.com/blog/2011/08/23/co2-emissions-2010/#comments
Wed, 24 Aug 2011 00:19:41 +0000
Bill Chameides



















http://www.greatenergychallengeblog.com/?p=3525

A new Energy Department report shows that when it comes to coal and CO2 emissions, Americans are piling it on. But there are also signs of changes on the horizon. (DOE/David Parsons - NREL Staff Photographer) 
Whether at Christmas time or in the heat of summer, nobody likes a lump of coal. Unfortunately, that’s what the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) is delivering in its latest report.
Think way back, well, back to 2009, when there was just the slightest hint of a sea change in America’s energy picture. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions were down, and down by a lot. On the heels of a 3 percent drop in 2008, 2009’s emissions had dropped by a whopping 7 percent. Taken together, the drops were half of what was needed to meet the 17 percent cuts the United States offered up in Copenhagen that December.
But emissions are expected to go down during an economic downturn, so what’s the big deal? Well, maybe it wasn’t a “big” deal, but it was a deal — small but tantalizing. The emissions declines were not all due to the recession. In fact, according to the EIA analysis, only about a third was attributable to the fall in gross domestic product. The other two-thirds were tied to a more structural shift in the way the nation generates and uses energy: specifically, a decrease in energy intensity (indicating greater efficiencies in energy generation and use) and a decrease in carbon intensity (due to fuel switching from coal to natural gas and to a lesser extent renewables).
These data raised a hopeful question: Could this be the first sign of a national trend?
A New Trend Toward Greater Efficiency and Cleaner Fuels?
Alas, the answer appears to be no.
Earlier this year, EIA projected that U.S. CO2 emissions in 2010 had increased by about 3 percent. The final tally now pegs the increase at 3.9 percent — the “l