Twisted Politix's Amplify | Amplify.com










Enjoy the conversation.
Amplify is a place to talk about what's going on.
It's as simple as that.




				   
				










Twisted Politix | My Amplify
Things I Amplify from the web






 


Matt Taibbi Gets Most Right but Misunderstands Ron Paul

17 hours  ago by Twisted Politix in Politics
You gotta love Matti Taibbi and the Rolling Stone lately.  They are one of the last independent media outlets that is forcing Americans to look long and hard at the corrupt and broken system we live in.

But I think that Matt Taibbi gets Ron Paul all wrong with this analysis, mainly because he, like many, are afraid of the GOP.  

That's why Ron Paul should run as an independent too.  And get a fair shake in the public eye. URL:  www.rollingstone.com

Comment 





Leave a comment:






To post your comment, please sign in with one of the following...

















Why didn’t obama tell the story of his vision for high speed rail in america?

1 day  ago by Twisted Politix in Politics
This is completely insufficient.  Either Obama is ashamed that the GOP plans for Amtrak may include some good ideas, or he thinks his plan is inherently superior.

The American people did not understand that the mighty plans to rebuild America during the fall of capitalism and the final days of our number one status on the world stage were for our own good, so that we could come back someday, bolder and stronger than ever.

You see if the in the USA in the late 1800's that we decided to build railroads across the country, driven by demand for growth and gold and wealth.  Now in the 21st century, we should build efficient and earth friendly high speed rail to strengthen our own spirits as well as our economies.

We are at an end of an era of cheap oil, coal, and natural gas after getting greedy and impatient.  The end of cheap oil, coal, and gas - The end of cheap ENERGY to run our wasteful machine we call capitalism.  

Once the markets crash and gold is worth $10,000 an ounce, some will understand.  We will be without constant water in our baths, without bright neon lights, high definition streaming movies, webtv, etc.  The circuit teeter, totter, fluctuate and finally it will break under all the pressure.  And if we dont find a new way to live without the constant flow of energy, we will perish or go insane.

Our model of predatory capitalism has often violently raped the planet, plundered the wealth of less assertive nations, and sickened those that live near its production and refinement.

This is why the peak oil and transition movement could get behind a new American project to rebuild America with net zero emissions, reusing every scrap of waste we have extracted from this great earth over the last 150 years.  Not a single new excavation will be endeavored as this new American project to build high speed rail across America will be cheap, green, and of the best quality known to man.  

Not because one company or a handful of wealthy individuals monopolize sweetheart deals with the Administration, but because the new american rail system will be funded with votes.  

Casting the ballot with your preference for the new system will provide you with ownership.  You can only vote three or four times a year but nonetheless, you get ownership, just like everyone else.  If there is profit, you will vote for either cashing out or reinvesting your interests.  As long as we are not fickle, we will thrive.Amplify’d from www.whitehouse.gov
The White House
Office of the Press Secretary


            For Immediate Release          

            January 25, 2011          


Remarks by the President in State of Union AddressUnited States Capitol, Washington, D.C.
	9:12 P.M. EST     THE PRESIDENT:  Mr. Speaker, Mr. Vice President, members of Congress, distinguished guests, and fellow Americans:
	      Tonight I want to begin by congratulating the men and women of the 112th Congress, as well as your new Speaker, John Boehner.  (Applause.)  And as we mark this occasion, we’re also mindful of the empty chair in this chamber, and we pray for the health of our colleague -- and our friend -– Gabby Giffords.  (Applause.)
	      It’s no secret that those of us here tonight have had our differences over the last two years.  The debates have been contentious; we have fought fiercely for our beliefs.  And that’s a good thing.  That’s what a robust democracy demands.  That’s what helps set us apart as a nation.
	      But there’s a reason the tragedy in Tucson gave us pause. Amid all the noise and passion and rancor of our public debate, Tucson reminded us that no matter who we are or where we come from, each of us is a part of something greater -– something more consequential than party or political preference.
	      We are part of the American family.  We believe that in a country where every race and faith and point of view can be found, we are still bound together as one people; that we share common hopes and a common creed; that the dreams of a little girl in Tucson are not so different than those of our own children, and that they all deserve the chance to be fulfilled.
	      That, too, is what sets us apart as a nation.  (Applause.)
	      Now, by itself, this simple recognition won’t usher in a new era of cooperation.  What comes of this moment is up to us.  What comes of this moment will be determined not by whether we can sit together tonight, but whether we can work together tomorrow.  (Applause.)
	      I believe we can.  And I believe we must.  That’s what the people who sent us here expect of us.  With their votes, they’ve determined that governing will now be a shared responsibility between parties.  New laws will only pass with support from Democrats and Republicans.  We will move forward together, or not at all -– for the challenges we face are bigger than party, and bigger than politics.
	      At stake right now is not who wins the next election -– after all, we just had an election.  At stake is whether new jobs and industries take root in this country, or somewhere else.  It’s whether the hard work and industry of our people is rewarded.  It’s whether we sustain the leadership that has made America not just a place on a map, but the light to the world.
	      We are poised for progress.  Two years after the worst recession most of us have ever known, the stock market has come roaring back.  Corporate profits are up.  The economy is growing again.
	      But we have never measured progress by these yardsticks alone.  We measure progress by the success of our people.  By the jobs they can find and the quality of life those jobs offer.  By the prospects of a small business owner who dreams of turning a good idea into a thriving enterprise.  By the opportunities for a better life that we pass on to our children.
	      That’s the project the American people want us to work on. Together.  (Applause.)
	      We did that in December.  Thanks to the tax cuts we passed, Americans’ paychecks are a little bigger today.  Every business can write off the full cost of new investments that they make this year.  And these steps, taken by Democrats and Republicans, will grow the economy and add to the more than one million private sector jobs created last year.
	      But we have to do more.  These steps we’ve taken over the last two years may have broken the back of this recession, but to win the future, we’ll need to take on challenges that have been decades in the making.
	      Many people watching tonight can probably remember a time when finding a good job meant showing up at a nearby factory or a business downtown.  You didn’t always need a degree, and your competition was pretty much limited to your neighbors.  If you worked hard, chances are you’d have a job for life, with a decent paycheck and good benefits and the occasional promotion.  Maybe you’d even have the pride of seeing your kids work at the same company.
	      That world has changed.  And for many, the change has been painful.  I’ve seen it in the shuttered windows of once booming factories, and the vacant storefronts on once busy Main Streets. I’ve heard it in the frustrations of Americans who’ve seen their paychecks dwindle or their jobs disappear -– proud men and women who feel like the rules have been changed in the middle of the game.
	      They’re right.  The rules have changed.  In a single generation, revolutions in technology have transformed the way we live, work and do business.  Steel mills that once needed 1,000 workers can now do the same work with 100.  Today, just about any company can set up shop, hire workers, and sell their products wherever there’s an Internet connection.
	      Meanwhile, nations like China and India realized that with some changes of their own, they could compete in this new world. And so they started educating their children earlier and longer, with greater emphasis on math and science.  They’re investing in research and new technologies.  Just recently, China became the home to the world’s largest private solar research facility, and the world’s fastest computer.
	      So, yes, the world has changed.  The competition for jobs is real.  But this shouldn’t discourage us.  It should challenge us. Remember -– for all the hits we’ve taken these last few years, for all the naysayers predicting our decline, America still has the largest, most prosperous economy in the world.  (Applause.)  No workers -- no workers are more productive than ours.  No country has more successful companies, or grants more patents to inventors and entrepreneurs.  We’re the home to the world’s best colleges and universities, where more students come to study than any place on Earth.
	      What’s more, we are the first nation to be founded for the sake of an idea -– the idea that each of us deserves the chance to shape our own destiny.  That’s why centuries of pioneers and immigrants have risked everything to come here.  It’s why our students don’t just memorize equations, but answer questions like “What do you think of that idea?  What would you change about the world?  What do you want to be when you grow up?”
	      The future is ours to win.  But to get there, we can’t just stand still.  As Robert Kennedy told us, “The future is not a gift.  It is an achievement.”  Sustaining the American Dream has never been about standing pat.  It has required each generation to sacrifice, and struggle, and meet the demands of a new age.
	      And now it’s our turn.  We know what it takes to compete for the jobs and industries of our time.  We need to out-innovate, out-educate, and out-build the rest of the world.  (Applause.)  We have to make America the best place on Earth to do business.  We need to take responsibility for our deficit and reform our government.  That’s how our people will prosper.  That’s how we’ll win the future.  (Applause.)  And tonight, I’d like to talk about how we get there.
	                                  
	      The first step in winning the future is encouraging American innovation.  None of us can predict with certainty what the next big industry will be or where the new jobs will come from.  Thirty years ago, we couldn’t know that something called the Internet would lead to an economic revolution.  What we can do -- what America does better than anyone else -- is spark the creativity and imagination of our people.  We’re the nation that put cars in driveways and computers in offices; the nation of Edison and the Wright brothers; of Google and Facebook.  In America, innovation doesn’t just change our lives.  It is how we make our living.  (Applause.)
	      Our free enterprise system is what drives innovation.  But because it’s not always profitable for companies to invest in basic research, throughout our history, our government has provided cutting-edge scientists and inventors with the support that they need.  That’s what planted the seeds for the Internet.  That’s what helped make possible things like computer chips and GPS.  Just think of all the good jobs -- from manufacturing to retail -- that have come from these breakthroughs.
	      Half a century ago, when the Soviets beat us into space with the launch of a satellite called Sputnik, we had no idea how we would beat them to the moon.  The science wasn’t even there yet.  NASA didn’t exist.  But after investing in better research and education, we didn’t just surpass the Soviets; we unleashed a wave of innovation that created new industries and millions of new jobs.
	      This is our generation’s Sputnik moment.  Two years ago, I said that we needed to reach a level of research and development we haven’t seen since the height of the Space Race.  And in a few weeks, I will be sending a budget to Congress that helps us meet that goal.  We’ll invest in biomedical research, information technology, and especially clean energy technology -– (applause) -- an investment that will strengthen our security, protect our planet, and create countless new jobs for our people.
	      Already, we’re seeing the promise of renewable energy.  Robert and Gary Allen are brothers who run a small Michigan roofing company.  After September 11th, they volunteered their best roofers to help repair the Pentagon.  But half of their factory went unused, and the recession hit them hard.  Today, with the help of a government loan, that empty space is being used to manufacture solar shingles that are being sold all across the country.  In Robert’s words, “We reinvented ourselves.”
	      That’s what Americans have done for over 200 years: reinvented ourselves.  And to spur on more success stories like the Allen Brothers, we’ve begun to reinvent our energy policy. We’re not just handing out money.  We’re issuing a challenge.  We’re telling America’s scientists and engineers that if they assemble teams of the best minds in their fields, and focus on the hardest problems in clean energy, we’ll fund the Apollo projects of our time.
	      At the California Institute of Technology, they’re developing a way to turn sunlight and water into fuel for our cars.  At Oak Ridge National Laboratory, they’re using supercomputers to get a lot more power out of our nuclear facilities.  With more research and incentives, we can break our dependence on oil with biofuels, and become the first country to have a million electric vehicles on the road by 2015.  (Applause.)
	      We need to get behind this innovation.  And to help pay for it, I’m asking Congress to eliminate the billions in taxpayer dollars we currently give to oil companies.  (Applause.)  I don’t know if -- I don’t know if you’ve noticed, but they’re doing just fine on their own.  (Laughter.)  So instead of subsidizing yesterday’s energy, let’s invest in tomorrow’s.
	      Now, clean energy breakthroughs will only translate into clean energy jobs if businesses know there will be a market for what they’re selling.  So tonight, I challenge you to join me in setting a new goal:  By 2035, 80 percent of America’s electricity will come from clean energy sources.  (Applause.)
	      Some folks want wind and solar.  Others want nuclear, clean coal and natural gas.  To meet this goal, we will need them all -- and I urge Democrats and Republicans to work together to make it happen.  (Applause.)
	      Maintaining our leadership in research and technology is crucial to America’s success.  But if we want to win the future -– if we want innovation to produce jobs in America and not overseas -– then we also have to win the race to educate our kids.
	      Think about it.  Over the next 10 years, nearly half of all new jobs will require education that goes beyond a high school education.  And yet, as many as a quarter of our students aren’t even finishing high school.  The quality of our math and science education lags behind many other nations.  America has fallen to ninth in the proportion of young people with a college degree.  And so the question is whether all of us –- as citizens, and as parents –- are willing to do what’s necessary to give every child a chance to succeed.
	      That responsibility begins not in our classrooms, but in our homes and communities.  It’s family that first instills the love of learning in a child.  Only parents can make sure the TV is turned off and homework gets done.  We need to teach our kids that it’s not just the winner of the Super Bowl who deserves to be celebrated, but the winner of the science fair.  (Applause.)  We need to teach them that success is not a function of fame or PR, but of hard work and discipline.
	      Our schools share this responsibility.  When a child walks into a classroom, it should be a place of high expectations and high performance.  But too many schools don’t meet this test. That’s why instead of just pouring money into a system that’s not working, we launched a competition called Race to the Top.  To all 50 states, we said, “If you show us the most innovative plans to improve teacher quality and student achievement, we’ll show you the money.”
	      Race to the Top is the most meaningful reform of our public schools in a generation.  For less than 1 percent of what we spend on education each year, it has led over 40 states to raise their standards for teaching and learning.  And these standards were developed, by the way, not by Washington, but by Republican and Democratic governors throughout the country.  And Race to the Top should be the approach we follow this year as we replace No Child Left Behind with a law that’s more flexible and focused on what’s best for our kids.  (Applause.)
	      You see, we know what’s possible from our children when reform isn’t just a top-down mandate, but the work of local teachers and principals, school boards and communities.  Take a school like Bruce Randolph in Denver.  Three years ago, it was rated one of the worst schools in Colorado -- located on turf between two rival gangs.  But last May, 97 percent of the seniors received their diploma.  Most will be the first in their families to go to college.  And after the first year of the school’s transformation, the principal who made it possible wiped away tears when a student said, “Thank you, Ms. Waters, for showing that we are smart and we can make it.”  (Applause.)  That’s what good schools can do, and we want good schools all across the country.
	      Let’s also remember that after parents, the biggest impact on a child’s success comes from the man or woman at the front of the classroom.  In South Korea, teachers are known as “nation builders.”  Here in America, it’s time we treated the people who educate our children with the same level of respect.  (Applause.)  We want to reward good teachers and stop making excuses for bad ones.  (Applause.)  And over the next 10 years, with so many baby boomers retiring from our classrooms, we want to prepare 100,000 new teachers in the fields of science and technology and engineering and math.  (Applause.)
	      In fact, to every young person listening tonight who’s contemplating their career choice:  If you want to make a difference in the life of our nation; if you want to make a difference in the life of a child -- become a teacher.  Your country needs you.  (Applause.)
	      Of course, the education race doesn’t end with a high school diploma.  To compete, higher education must be within the reach of every American.  (Applause.)  That’s why we’ve ended the unwarranted taxpayer subsidies that went to banks, and used the savings to make college affordable for millions of students.  (Applause.)  And this year, I ask Congress to go further, and make permanent our tuition tax credit –- worth $10,000 for four years of college.  It’s the right thing to do.  (Applause.)
	      Because people need to be able to train for new jobs and careers in today’s fast-changing economy, we’re also revitalizing America’s community colleges.  Last month, I saw the promise of these schools at Forsyth Tech in North Carolina.  Many of the students there used to work in the surrounding factories that have since left town.  One mother of two, a woman named Kathy Proctor, had worked in the furniture industry since she was 18 years old.  And she told me she’s earning her degree in biotechnology now, at 55 years old, not just because the furniture jobs are gone, but because she wants to inspire her children to pursue their dreams, too.  As Kathy said, “I hope it tells them to never give up.”
	      If we take these steps -– if we raise expectations for every child, and give them the best possible chance at an education, from the day they are born until the last job they take –- we will reach the goal that I set two years ago:  By the end of the decade, America will once again have the highest proportion of college graduates in the world.  (Applause.)
	      One last point about education.  Today, there are hundreds of thousands of students excelling in our schools who are not American citizens.  Some are the children of undocumented workers, who had nothing to do with the actions of their parents. They grew up as Americans and pledge allegiance to our flag, and yet they live every day with the threat of deportation.  Others come here from abroad to study in our colleges and universities.  But as soon as they obtain advanced degrees, we send them back home to compete against us.  It makes no sense.
	      Now, I strongly believe that we should take on, once and for all, the issue of illegal immigration.  And I am prepared to work with Republicans and Democrats to protect our borders, enforce our laws and address the millions of undocumented workers who are now living in the shadows.  (Applause.)  I know that debate will be difficult.  I know it will take time.  But tonight, let’s agree to make that effort.  And let’s stop expelling talented, responsible young people who could be staffing our research labs or starting a new business, who could be further enriching this nation.  (Applause.)
	      The third step in winning the future is rebuilding America.  To attract new businesses to our shores, we need the fastest, most reliable ways to move people, goods, and information -- from high-speed rail to high-speed Internet.  (Applause.)
	      Our infrastructure used to be the best, but our lead has slipped.  South Korean homes now have greater Internet access than we do.  Countries in Europe and Russia invest more in their roads and railways than we do.  China is building faster trains and newer airports.  Meanwhile, when our own engineers graded our nation’s infrastructure, they gave us a “D.”
	      We have to do better.  America is the nation that built the transcontinental railroad, brought electricity to rural communities, constructed the Interstate Highway System.  The jobs created by these projects didn’t just come from laying down track or pavement.  They came from businesses that opened near a town’s new train station or the new off-ramp.
	      So over the last two years, we’ve begun rebuilding for the 21st century, a project that has meant thousands of good jobs for the hard-hit construction industry.  And tonight, I’m proposing that we redouble those efforts.  (Applause.)
	      We’ll put more Americans to work repairing crumbling roads and bridges.  We’ll make sure this is fully paid for, attract private investment, and pick projects based [on] what’s best for the economy, not politicians.
	      Within 25 years, our goal is to give 80 percent of Americans access to high-speed rail.  (Applause.)  This could allow you to go places in half the time it takes to travel by car.  For some trips, it will be faster than flying –- without the pat-down.  (Laughter and applause.)  As we speak, routes in California and the Midwest are already underway.
	      Within the next five years, we’ll make it possible for businesses to deploy the next generation of high-speed wireless coverage to 98 percent of all Americans.  This isn’t just about -- (applause) -- this isn’t about faster Internet or fewer dropped calls.  It’s about connecting every part of America to the digital age.  It’s about a rural community in Iowa or Alabama where farmers and small business owners will be able to sell their products all over the world.  It’s about a firefighter who can download the design of a burning building onto a handheld device; a student who can take classes with a digital textbook; or a patient who can have face-to-face video chats with her doctor.
	      All these investments -– in innovation, education, and infrastructure –- will make America a better place to do business and create jobs.  But to help our companies compete, we also have to knock down barriers that stand in the way of their success.
	      For example, over the years, a parade of lobbyists has rigged the tax code to benefit particular companies and industries.  Those with accountants or lawyers to work the system can end up paying no taxes at all.  But all the rest are hit with one of the highest corporate tax rates in the world.  It makes no sense, and it has to change.  (Applause.)
	      So tonight, I’m asking Democrats and Republicans to simplify the system.  Get rid of the loopholes.  Level the playing field.  And use the savings to lower the corporate tax rate for the first time in 25 years –- without adding to our deficit.  It can be done.  (Applause.)
	      To help businesses sell more products abroad, we set a goal of doubling our exports by 2014 -– because the more we export, the more jobs we create here at home.  Already, our exports are up.  Recently, we signed agreements with India and China that will support more than 250,000 jobs here in the United States.  And last month, we finalized a trade agreement with South Korea that will support at least 70,000 American jobs.  This agreement has unprecedented support from business and labor, Democrats and Republicans -- and I ask this Congress to pass it as soon as possible.  (Applause.)
	      Now, before I took office, I made it clear that we would enforce our trade agreements, and that I would only sign deals that keep faith with American workers and promote American jobs.  That’s what we did with Korea, and that’s what I intend to do as we pursue agreements with Panama and Colombia and continue our Asia Pacific and global trade talks.  (Applause.)
	      To reduce barriers to growth and investment, I’ve ordered a review of government regulations.  When we find rules that put an unnecessary burden on businesses, we will fix them.  (Applause.)  But I will not hesitate to create or enforce common-sense safeguards to protect the American people.  (Applause.)  That’s what we’ve done in this country for more than a century.  It’s why our food is safe to eat, our water is safe to drink, and our air is safe to breathe.  It’s why we have speed limits and child labor laws.  It’s why last year, we put in place consumer protections against hidden fees and penalties by credit card companies and new rules to prevent another financial crisis.  (Applause.)  And it’s why we passed reform that finally prevents the health insurance industry from exploiting patients.  (Applause.)
	      Now, I have heard rumors that a few of you still have concerns about our new health care law.  (Laughter.)  So let me be the first to say that anything can be improved.  If you have ideas about how to improve this law by making care better or more affordable, I am eager to work with you.  We can start right now by correcting a flaw in the legislation that has placed an unnecessary bookkeeping burden on small businesses.  (Applause.)
	      What I’m not willing to do -- what I’m not willing to do is go back to the days when insurance companies could deny someone coverage because of a preexisting condition.  (Applause.)
	      I’m not willing to tell James Howard, a brain cancer patient from Texas, that his treatment might not be covered.  I’m not willing to tell Jim Houser, a small business man from Oregon, that he has to go back to paying $5,000 more to cover his employees.  As we speak, this law is making prescription drugs cheaper for seniors and giving uninsured students a chance to stay on their patients’ -- parents’ coverage.  (Applause.)
	      So I say to this chamber tonight, instead of re-fighting the battles of the last two years, let’s fix what needs fixing and let’s move forward.  (Applause.)
	      Now, the final critical step in winning the future is to make sure we aren’t buried under a mountain of debt.
	      We are living with a legacy of deficit spending that began almost a decade ago.  And in the wake of the financial crisis, some of that was necessary to keep credit flowing, save jobs, and put money in people’s pockets.
	      But now that the worst of the recession is over, we have to confront the fact that our government spends more than it takes in.  That is not sustainable.  Every day, families sacrifice to live within their means.  They deserve a government that does the same.
	      So tonight, I am proposing that starting this year, we freeze annual domestic spending for the next five years.  (Applause.)  Now, this would reduce the deficit by more than $400 billion over the next decade, and will bring discretionary spending to the lowest share of our economy since Dwight Eisenhower was President.
	      This freeze will require painful cuts.  Already, we’ve frozen the salaries of hardworking federal employees for the next two years.  I’ve proposed cuts to things I care deeply about, like community action programs.  The Secretary of Defense has also agreed to cut tens of billions of dollars in spending that he and his generals believe our military can do without.  (Applause.)
	      I recognize that some in this chamber have already proposed deeper cuts, and I’m willing to eliminate whatever we can honestly afford to do without.  But let’s make sure that we’re not doing it on the backs of our most vulnerable citizens.  (Applause.)  And let’s make sure that what we’re cutting is really excess weight.  Cutting the deficit by gutting our investments in innovation and education is like lightening an overloaded airplane by removing its engine.  It may make you feel like you’re flying high at first, but it won’t take long before you feel the impact.  (Laughter.)
	      Now, most of the cuts and savings I’ve proposed only address annual domestic spending, which represents a little more than 12 percent of our budget.  To make further progress, we have to stop pretending that cutting this kind of spending alone will be enough.  It won’t.  (Applause.)
	      The bipartisan fiscal commission I created last year made this crystal clear.  I don’t agree with all their proposals, but they made important progress.  And their conclusion is that the only way to tackle our deficit is to cut excessive spending wherever we find it –- in domestic spending, defense spending, health care spending, and spending through tax breaks and loopholes.  (Applause.)
	      This means further reducing health care costs, including programs like Medicare and Medicaid, which are the single biggest contributor to our long-term deficit.  The health insurance law we passed last year will slow these rising costs, which is part of the reason that nonpartisan economists have said that repealing the health care law would add a quarter of a trillion dollars to our deficit.  Still, I’m willing to look at other ideas to bring down costs, including one that Republicans suggested last year -- medical malpractice reform to rein in frivolous lawsuits.  (Applause.)
	      To put us on solid ground, we should also find a bipartisan solution to strengthen Social Security for future generations.  (Applause.)  We must do it without putting at risk current retirees, the most vulnerable, or people with disabilities; without slashing benefits for future generations; and without subjecting Americans’ guaranteed retirement income to the whims of the stock market.  (Applause.)
	      And if we truly care about our deficit, we simply can’t afford a permanent extension of the tax cuts for the wealthiest 2 percent of Americans.  (Applause.)  Before we take money away from our schools or scholarships away from our students, we should ask millionaires to give up their tax break.  It’s not a matter of punishing their success.  It’s about promoting America’s success.  (Applause.)
	      In fact, the best thing we could do on taxes for all Americans is to simplify the individual tax code.  (Applause.)  This will be a tough job, but members of both parties have expressed an interest in doing this, and I am prepared to join them.  (Applause.)
	      So now is the time to act.  Now is the time for both sides and both houses of Congress –- Democrats and Republicans -– to forge a principled compromise that gets the job done.  If we make the hard choices now to rein in our deficits, we can make the investments we need to win the future.
	      Let me take this one step further.  We shouldn’t just give our people a government that’s more affordable.  We should give them a government that’s more competent and more efficient.  We can’t win the future with a government of the past.  (Applause.)
	      We live and do business in the Information Age, but the last major reorganization of the government happened in the age of black-and-white TV.  There are 12 different agencies that deal with exports.  There are at least five different agencies that deal with housing policy.  Then there’s my favorite example:  The Interior Department is in charge of salmon while they’re in fresh water, but the Commerce Department handles them when they’re in saltwater.  (Laughter.)  I hear it gets even more complicated once they’re smoked.  (Laughter and applause.)
	      Now, we’ve made great strides over the last two years in using technology and getting rid of waste.  Veterans can now download their electronic medical records with a click of the mouse.  We’re selling acres of federal office space that hasn’t been used in years, and we’ll cut through red tape to get rid of more.  But we need to think bigger.  In the coming months, my administration will develop a proposal to merge, consolidate, and reorganize the federal government in a way that best serves the goal of a more competitive America.  I will submit that proposal to Congress for a vote –- and we will push to get it passed.  (Applause.)
	      In the coming year, we’ll also work to rebuild people’s faith in the institution of government.  Because you deserve to know exactly how and where your tax dollars are being spent, you’ll be able to go to a website and get that information for the very first time in history.  Because you deserve to know when your elected officials are meeting with lobbyists, I ask Congress to do what the White House has already done -- put that information online.  And because the American people deserve to know that special interests aren’t larding up legislation with pet projects, both parties in Congress should know this:  If a bill comes to my desk with earmarks inside, I will veto it.  I will veto it.  (Applause.)
	      The 21st century government that’s open and competent.  A government that lives within its means.  An economy that’s driven by new skills and new ideas.  Our success in this new and changing world will require reform, responsibility, and innovation.  It will also require us to approach that world with a new level of engagement in our foreign affairs.
	      Just as jobs and businesses can now race across borders, so can new threats and new challenges.  No single wall separates East and West.  No one rival superpower is aligned against us.
	      And so we must defeat determined enemies, wherever they are, and build coalitions that cut across lines of region and race and religion.  And America’s moral example must always shine for all who yearn for freedom and justice and dignity.  And because we’ve begun this work, tonight we can say that American leadership has been renewed and America’s standing has been restored.
	      Look to Iraq, where nearly 100,000 of our brave men and women have left with their heads held high.  (Applause.)  American combat patrols have ended, violence is down, and a new government has been formed.  This year, our civilians will forge a lasting partnership with the Iraqi people, while we finish the job of bringing our troops out of Iraq.  America’s commitment has been kept.  The Iraq war is coming to an end.  (Applause.)
	      Of course, as we speak, al Qaeda and their affiliates continue to plan attacks against us.  Thanks to our intelligence and law enforcement professionals, we’re disrupting plots and securing our cities and skies.  And as extremists try to inspire acts of violence within our borders, we are responding with the strength of our communities, with respect for the rule of law, and with the conviction that American Muslims are a part of our American family.  (Applause.)    
	      We’ve also taken the fight to al Qaeda and their allies abroad.  In Afghanistan, our troops have taken Taliban strongholds and trained Afghan security forces.  Our purpose is clear:  By preventing the Taliban from reestablishing a stranglehold over the Afghan people, we will deny al Qaeda the safe haven that served as a launching pad for 9/11.
	      Thanks to our heroic troops and civilians, fewer Afghans are under the control of the insurgency.  There will be tough fighting ahead, and the Afghan government will need to deliver better governance.  But we are strengthening the capacity of the Afghan people and building an enduring partnership with them.  This year, we will work with nearly 50 countries to begin a transition to an Afghan lead.  And this July, we will begin to bring our troops home.  (Applause.)
	      In Pakistan, al Qaeda’s leadership is under more pressure than at any point since 2001.  Their leaders and operatives are being removed from the battlefield.  Their safe havens are shrinking.  And we’ve sent a message from the Afghan border to the Arabian Peninsula to all parts of the globe:  We will not relent, we will not waver, and we will defeat you.  (Applause.)
	      American leadership can also be seen in the effort to secure the worst weapons of war.  Because Republicans and Democrats approved the New START treaty, far fewer nuclear weapons and launchers will be deployed.  Because we rallied the world, nuclear materials are being locked down on every continent so they never fall into the hands of terrorists.  (Applause.)
	      Because of a diplomatic effort to insist that Iran meet its obligations, the Iranian government now faces tougher sanctions, tighter sanctions than ever before.  And on the Korean Peninsula, we stand with our ally South Korea, and insist that North Korea keeps its commitment to abandon nuclear weapons.  (Applause.)
	      This is just a part of how we’re shaping a world that favors peace and prosperity.  With our European allies, we revitalized NATO and increased our cooperation on everything from counterterrorism to missile defense.  We’ve reset our relationship with Russia, strengthened Asian alliances, built new partnerships with nations like India.
	      This March, I will travel to Brazil, Chile, and El Salvador to forge new alliances across the Americas.  Around the globe, we’re standing with those who take responsibility -– helping farmers grow more food, supporting doctors who care for the sick, and combating the corruption that can rot a society and rob people of opportunity.
	      Recent events have shown us that what sets us apart must not just be our power -– it must also be the purpose behind it.  In south Sudan -– with our assistance -– the people were finally able to vote for independence after years of war.  (Applause.)  Thousands lined up before dawn.  People danced in the streets.  One man who lost four of his brothers at war summed up the scene around him:  “This was a battlefield for most of my life,” he said.  “Now we want to be free.”  (Applause.)
	      And we saw that same desire to be free in Tunisia, where the will of the people proved more powerful than the writ of a dictator.  And tonight, let us be clear:  The United States of America stands with the people of Tunisia, and supports the democratic aspirations of all people.  (Applause.)
	      We must never forget that the things we’ve struggled for, and fought for, live in the hearts of people everywhere.  And we must always remember that the Americans who have borne the greatest burden in this struggle are the men and women who serve our country.  (Applause.)
	      Tonight, let us speak with one voice in reaffirming that our nation is united in support of our troops and their families.  Let us serve them as well as they’ve served us -- by giving them the equipment they need, by providing them with the care and benefits that they have earned, and by enlisting our veterans in the great task of building our own nation.
	      Our troops come from every corner of this country -– they’re black, white, Latino, Asian, Native American.  They are Christian and Hindu, Jewish and Muslim.  And, yes, we know that some of them are gay.  Starting this year, no American will be forbidden from serving the country they love because of who they love.  (Applause.)  And with that change, I call on all our college campuses to open their doors to our military recruiters and ROTC.  It is time to leave behind the divisive battles of the past.  It is time to move forward as one nation.  (Applause.)
	      We should have no illusions about the work ahead of us. Reforming our schools, changing the way we use energy, reducing our deficit –- none of this will be easy.  All of it will take time.  And it will be harder because we will argue about everything.  The costs.  The details.  The letter of every law.
	      Of course, some countries don’t have this problem.  If the central government wants a railroad, they build a railroad, no matter how many homes get bulldozed.  If they don’t want a bad story in the newspaper, it doesn’t get written.
	      And yet, as contentious and frustrating and messy as our democracy can sometimes be, I know there isn’t a person here who would trade places with any other nation on Earth.  (Applause.)
	      We may have differences in policy, but we all believe in the rights enshrined in our Constitution.  We may have different opinions, but we believe in the same promise that says this is a place where you can make it if you try.  We may have different backgrounds, but we believe in the same dream that says this is a country where anything is possible.  No matter who you are.  No matter where you come from.
	      That dream is why I can stand here before you tonight.  That dream is why a working-class kid from Scranton can sit behind me.  (Laughter and applause.)  That dream is why someone who began by sweeping the floors of his father’s Cincinnati bar can preside as Speaker of the House in the greatest nation on Earth.  (Applause.)
	      That dream -– that American Dream -– is what drove the Allen Brothers to reinvent their roofing company for a new era.  It’s what drove those students at Forsyth Tech to learn a new skill and work towards the future.  And that dream is the story of a small business owner named Brandon Fisher.
	      Brandon started a company in Berlin, Pennsylvania, that specializes in a new kind of drilling technology.  And one day last summer, he saw the news that halfway across the world, 33 men were trapped in a Chilean mine, and no one knew how to save them.
	      But Brandon thought his company could help.  And so he designed a rescue that would come to be known as Plan B.  His employees worked around the clock to manufacture the necessary drilling equipment.  And Brandon left for Chile.
	      Along with others, he began drilling a 2,000-foot hole into the ground, working three- or four-hour -- three or four days at a time without any sleep.  Thirty-seven days later, Plan B succeeded, and the miners were rescued.  (Applause.)  But because he didn’t want all of the attention, Brandon wasn’t there when the miners emerged.  He’d already gone back home, back to work on his next project.
	      And later, one of his employees said of the rescue, “We proved that Center Rock is a little company, but we do big things.”  (Applause.)
	      We do big things.
	      From the earliest days of our founding, America has been the story of ordinary people who dare to dream.  That’s how we win the future.
	      We’re a nation that says, “I might not have a lot of money, but I have this great idea for a new company.”  “I might not come from a family of college graduates, but I will be the first to get my degree.”  “I might not know those people in trouble, but I think I can help them, and I need to try.”  “I’m not sure how we’ll reach that better place beyond the horizon, but I know we’ll get there.  I know we will.”
	      We do big things.  (Applause.)
	      The idea of America endures.  Our destiny remains our choice.  And tonight, more than two centuries later, it’s because of our people that our future is hopeful, our journey goes forward, and the state of our union is strong.
	      Thank you.  God bless you, and may God bless the United States of America.  (Applause.)
	                        END           10:13 P.M. ESTRead more at www.whitehouse.gov 

Comment 





Leave a comment:






To post your comment, please sign in with one of the following...

















Vision for High Speed Rail in America

1 day  ago by Twisted Politix in Business
Brilliant idea but the story was never told URL:  en.wikipedia.org

Comment 





Leave a comment:






To post your comment, please sign in with one of the following...

















Obama Spurred the Expansion of Amtrak Before the Republicans Tried to Privatize It

1 day  ago by Twisted Politix in Politics
A federal allocation of $8 billion for high-speed rail projects as a part of the 2009 stimulus package has prompted U.S. federal and state planners to coordinate the expansion of high-speed service to ten other major rail corridors.[50]Amplify’d from en.wikipedia.org[edit] High-speed rail in the United StatesMain article: High-speed rail in the United StatesHigh-speed rail in the United States currently consists of one high-speed rail service:[49]:5 Amtrak's Acela Express runs on the Northeast Corridor from Boston to Washington, D.C. Unlike Asian or European systems, the Acela shares its tracks with conventional rail, and thus is limited to an average speed of 68 mph (109 km/h) for the entire distance with brief segments up to 150 mph (240 km/h). A federal allocation of $8 billion for high-speed rail projects as a part of the 2009 stimulus package has prompted U.S. federal and state planners to coordinate the expansion of high-speed service to ten other major rail corridors.[50]America's first dedicated high-speed rail infrastructure plans are most advanced in California, consisting of a high speed line between Anaheim and San Francisco via Los Angeles and San Jose. The line is scheduled to begin construction by September 2012 (however, delays are expected due to political infighting) in the Central Valley.[51] The new line planned for construction in California would have a top speed in excess of 150 mph (240 km/h) and is classified as a High-Speed Rail–Express corridor.[52]Read more at en.wikipedia.org 

Comment 





Leave a comment:






To post your comment, please sign in with one of the following...

















If the USA Privatized Amtrak, We Could Build Trains Better than Japan, Germany, France, Switzerland, China, and England!

1 day  ago by Twisted Politix in Technology
Hell yeah.  We would build the Mustang 5.0 of trains.  We would call it the bazooka and it would go so fast it would peel your skin back.  Stewardesses would lose their skirts and fall into the arms of our brave mean and women that build them.  The heroes who helped rescue American culture from the jaws of extinction and saved the American economy from the brink of collapse.  Because new American trains, the bazooka included, would be built right here in the USA by all our retrained workforce of previously unemployed.  Yes, you've heard of TARP, this will be Operation CANVAS.  "California, Nevada to Arkansas" the greatest American project of the 21st century.  

Lead by newly formed entities, free of the stigma of government and corporations, will gather people from around the country to labor for love of life in the new American world.  This time, we will get the balance right between the carrot and the stick because we can gather input from more countries.  Now that the communist and capitalist models have proven corruptible and violent, we should envision a new world order in which life is a little more enjoyable for a greater percentage of the population.

Anyway, the new American Amtrak will run efficiently like the Japanese model, smoothly like the Mexican's, with style like the French, with speed like the German's, and with coffee like the Italian's.Amplify’d from en.wikipedia.orgHigh-speed rail"High speed train" redirects here. For an article about the High Speed Train, a diesel-powered train in the UK, see InterCity 125."Fast train" redirects here. For other uses, see Fast Train (disambiguation).High-speed rail (HSR) is a type of passenger rail transport that operates significantly faster than the normal speed of rail traffic. Specific definitions by the European Union include 200 km/h (124 mph) for upgraded track and 250 km/h (155 mph) or faster for new track,[1] whilst in the United States, the U.S. Department of Transportation defines it as "reasonably expected to reach sustained speeds of more than 125 mph (201 km/h),[2]" although the Federal Railroad Administration uses a definition of above 110 mph (177 km/h).[3]Actual maximum commercial speed is about 300 km/h (186 mph) for majority of national high speed railways (Japan, China, France, Germany, Spain, Italy, UK), and about 400 km/h (249 mph) for Maglev trains.
High speed trains travels at their maximum speed on specific tracks, generally using standard gauge (except Russia), with no at-grade crossings, and few curves.The world record for conventional high-speed rail is held by the V150, a specially configured and heavily modified version of Alstom's TGV which clocked 574.8 km/h (357.2 mph) on a test run. The world speed record for Maglev is held by the Japanese experimental MLX01: 581 km/h (361 mph).[4]While high-speed rail is usually designed for passenger travel, some high-speed systems also carry some kind of freight service. For instance, the French mail service La Poste owns a few special TGV trains for carrying postal freight.

E5 Series Shinkansen in Japan

German ICE 3 high-speed train

Chinese CRH380A train leaving Shanghai Hongqiao Railway Station

TGV Duplex at Gare de Lyon in Paris

Spanish high speed, AVE Talgo-350Railways were the first form of mass transportation on land and, until the development of the motorcar in the early 20th century, had an effective monopoly on land transport. Both streamlined steam locomotives and high-speed EMUs were used for high speed services.The modern high-speed rail era started 6 October 1903. An electrical railcar from Siemens & Halske sped away at 203 km/h (126 mph) on the military railway track between Marienfeld and Zossen in Germany. It showed that high-speed rail was possible, and that the future was electrical. For scheduled trains, however, such a speed still was more than 60 years away.

The Italian ETR 200 in 1938 was the first high speed service train. It achieved the world mean speed record in 1938, reaching 203 km/h (126 mph) near MilanThe high-speed interurbansThe electrical streetcar (tram) was born as an urban transportation medium, but already before 1890 the first urban lines or networks were connected. The interurban, the remarkable hybrid between a streetcar and a conventional train, was created. Interurbans were built (and do still exist) both in Europe and Asia, but the high-speed interurban was a U.S. invention, and their constructors were the first to implement several HSR technologies. Interurbans were especially popular in the Midwest (Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Wisconsin). Another stronghold was the Philadelphia area. Two essential HSR properties – streamlining to reduce air resistance, and tracks with no grade crossing – were introduced more than a hundred years ago on the interuban scene. In 1903 the officials of the Louisiana Purchase Exposition organized the Electric Railway Test Commission to conduct a series of tests to develop a carbody design that would reduce wind resistance at high speeds. After a couple of years’ research with speeds up to 70 mph (110 km/h), several streamliners were built – but for the service speeds and heavy equipment of this era, no significant operating economies were realized, and streamlining was soon discarded for another quarter century. In 1907 Philadelphia and Western Railroad (P&W) opened their double-track Strafford–Upper Darby line without a single grade crossing, and the first absolute block signal system ever installed on an interurban.[5] In the 1930s there was an attempt to revive the high speed interurban lines with cars developed that could carry 42 passengers at approximately 86 mph (138 km/h) While extensively tested, it is unknown if any lines actually operated these high speed interurban lines.[6]
[edit] Red Devils, Bullets and Electroliners
The interurban development culminated with high-speed railcars like the Red Devils (which were inaugurated in 1929), the Bullets from J. G. Brill Company (1931), and the Electroliners which in 1941-63 ran between Chicago and Milwaukee and in 1963–1976 in the Philadelphia area.
These lightweight constructions weighed only about 500 kg (1,100 lb) per seat; today’s high-speed trains are heavier. Their commercial top speed was about 145 km/h (90 mph), but they were able to reach about 160 km/h (99 mph) in test runs – the Electroliners even almost to 180 km/h (110 mph), a respectable speed for a “tram”. Station-to-stations speeds of 70 mph (113 km/h) were, not infrequently, attained on Samuel Insull’s interurbans in the Chicago area.[5]
The Bullets were the first rail equipment made after windtunnel research to reduce the air resistance;[7] they are called ‘very first high-speed “Super” trains; ancestors of the TGV, Intercity-Express, Shinkansen, and the Acela Express’.[8]
[edit] The diesel-electric hegemony
In most of the U.S., the rail passenger transport deteriorated because of the fierce competition from cars and buses, which ran on subsidized streets and highways – at many places also because of infiltration from the automaker companies (Great American streetcar scandal). The electrical trams (streetcars) and interurbans were especially sensitive to the competition, partially because they were clogged in the streets’ car jams. Yet the P&W survived, and survived very well; their successor SEPTA serves the Philadelphia area very well even today. After the Electroliners’ introduction, however, the interurbans didn’t contribute to the high-speed development.
In addition to their own Bullets, P&W bought the used Electroliners and made the Philadelphia area a refugium for old interurbans. They held a couple of Bullets almost 60 years in a commuter service; the last Bullets were phased out after surviving six generations of «modern» buses.
Some few years, diesel-electrics dominated among the high-speed trains, or proto-high-speed trains if the HSR limit is set to 200 km/h (124 mph) (in 1931, Franz Kruckenberg’s gasoline-driven Schienenzeppelin reached 230 km/h (143 mph), but didn’t come into regular service). In 1933, Germany’s Fliegender Hamburger – a train with two wagons and 102 seats – sped at 160 km/h (99 mph) in commercial traffic on the route Hamburg–Berlin.[9] The average speed, 124 km/h (77 mph), was faster than the interurbans, mostly because the train ran non-stop and without running at snail’s pace through congested city streets – though not much faster. A few similar trains were inaugurated on other mainlines. However, the Nazi regime preferred motorways and planes to railways.
[edit] Mountain-Top Road
The U.S. railways still had not given up the race. In 1931-35, the Union Pacific Railroad built a short high speed line in northern California between the Keddie Wye and Bieber near the Oregon border. The high speed rail operated with special articulated aluminum cars powered by a 600 hp (447 kW) internal combustion engine, and capable of speeds of up to 110 mph (177 km/h).[10][clarification needed]
[edit] The Pioneer Zephyr
In 1934, a diesel-electric streamliner, the legendary Pioneer Zephyr from the Budd Company, was inaugurated on the Kansas City (Missouri)–Omaha–Lincoln (Nebraska) route.[11] It had 72 seats (later expanded to 112). It was one of the first articulated trains with Jacobs bogies and was followed by several similar Zephyrs, which served U.S. railways till about 1960. In 1939, the Wisconsin people could say good morning to the first train reaching the 100 mph (161 km/h) mark in regular service. Its name was Morning Hiawatha – the last steam engine in the record books. This record should survive a quarter of a century. Yet the Italian ETR 200 sped at up to 203 km/h (126 mph) between Florence and Milan, but only on a test run.
[edit] The turbotrain siding
In the 1960s, several jet-powered and gas turbine trains appeared on the high-speed scene. These sorts of engines had a much higher power-to-weight ratio than diesels, and the fuel was cheap – which made them well fit to nonelectrified service.
In 1966, the M-497 Black Beetle was born. Two second-hand General Electric J47-19 jet engines (designed as boosters for the Convair B-36 intercontinental bomber) were mounted atop an existing Budd Rail Diesel Car body which had received a streamlined front cowling. On an arrow-straight track in Indiana and Ohio this “Jet Zephyr” set a still valid North American speed record at 296 km/h (184 mph) – but with exception of the record books, both the train and the data were ignored. In 1970, a similar train was built in the USSR.
The most innovative gas turbine train was the UAC TurboTrain made by the United Aircraft Corporation in Canada. It was a sleek, articulated train with Jacobs bogies like the Pioneer Zephyr and the Electroliners, with an aluminum carbody, and with a tilting mechanism. The turbines were small and light compared to diesel engines, too. The turbines were downrated from 600 to 300 hp (447 to 224 kW) (probably because the noise from a turbine usually increases much more than the rotation speed) and weighed only 300 lb (136 kg); each power car had up to six turbines for propulsion, and one which ran a generator for lighting etc. On a high-speed stretch in the Northeast Corridor it sped away at 170 mph (274 km/h), still U.S. record for any commercial train. More important, the train was able to run at high speed on mediocre tracks – in theory. Canadian and U.S. railroads bought five and two, respectively, and they were inaugurated in 1968 though the Canadian ones paused till 1973 after problems during the cold winter 1969. In service, they were limited to 100 mph (161 km/h). They reduced the journey time from about five to about four hours on the Toronto–Montreal line; with an availability rate of over 97% they offered two departures each way a day in the years 1973-82. After that, the last UAC TurboTrain was parked.
The more mundane French turbotrains and their derivatives (Turboliners etc.) were the most successful of all passenger turbotrains, both in North America and in France itself. The French RTG Turbotrain ran till 2005 and survived all other turbotrains in regular service. Their commercial speed didn’t surpass 160 km/h (99 mph), but their follow-up, the very first TGV, reached 318 km/h (198 mph), which is still world record for turbotrains. SNCF got valuable experiences with this experimental train, and the commercial TGVs were very similar to the TGV-001 – but rising oil prices made SNCF switching to electricity. The turbotrains were noisy, too, especially when starting at the stations.
In 2002, Bombardier tried to breathe new life into the turbotrain technology with its JetTrain. As of 2010, it has yet to amount to anything more than an experimental train.
[edit] Shinkansen




Odakyū 3000 series SE, narrow gauge precursor to high speed rail in Japan


The true HSR breakthrough started in Japan. In this densely populated country, especially the 45-million-people area between Tokyo and Osaka, the traffic during the 1950s congested to reach maximum capacity. Both the roads and the narrow-gauge railways were jammed.[12] Japan in the 1950s was a crowded resource-limited nation that for security reasons did not want to import petroleum, and desperately needed a way to transport its millions of people in and between cities. So in 1957, the engineers at local private Odakyu Electric Railway in Greater Tokyo area had launched its Romancecar 3000 SE. This Romancecar set a world record for narrow gauge trains at 145 km/h (90 mph), giving the Odakyu engineers confidence they could safely and reliably build even faster trains at standard gauge.[12] Some of those engineers under government supervision started planning of the first intercity dedicated high-speed line. After initial feasibility tests, the plan was fast tracked and construction started in April 20, 1959,[13] and test runs in 1963 hit top speeds at 256 km/h (159 mph). And in October 1964, just in time for the Olympics, they opened the first modern high speed rail, the Shinkansen, Tōkaidō Shinkansen, between the two cities.[14]
The first Shinkansen trains, the 0 Series Shinkansen, built by Kawasaki Heavy Industries[14] – in English often called ‘’Bullet’’ Trains, after the original Japanese name Dangan Ressha(弾丸列車) – outclassed the earlier fast trains in commercial service. They ran the 515 km (320 mi) distance with a top speed at 210 km/h (130 mph) and an average speed at 162.8 km/h (101.2 mph) with stops at Nagoya and Kyoto. But the speed was only a part of the Shinkansen revolution. The earlier high-speed or proto-high-speed trains and railcars were few and far between (ten Red Devils, 15 Brill Bullets, a few Zephyrs with different forenames, two Elelectroliners, one Morning Hiawatha, one Fliegender Hamburger, etc., each with 150 seats at best). While these services were initially limited, Shinkansen offered HSR for the masses. The first Bullet trains had 12 cars; later versions have up to 16,[15] and there are double-deck trains too, to increase the capacity.[16][17]
After three years, more than 100 million passengers had used the trains, and the first billion was passed in 1976.[18] Later, the Shinkansen system has grown to a 2,459 km (1,528 mi) network, and the Tōkaidō Shinkansen still is the world's busiest high-speed rail line. Up to ten trains per hour with 16 cars each (1,300 seats capacity) run in each direction with a minimum of 3 minutes between trains.[19] Though largely a long-distance transport system, the Shinkansen also serves commuters who travel to work in metropolitan areas from outlying cities.[20]
In March 2011, a Hayabusa or Falcon train started operating from Tokyo to northern Japan with carriages outfitted to airline business class standard. Capable of travelling at 300 km/h (190 mph) it can make the 675 km (419 mi) trip to Aomori in just over 3 hours.[21]
The 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami, which devastated Sendai, a city northeast of Tokyo, made all Shinkansen trains automatically stop. No Shinkansen passengers suffered, and the Tōkaidō Shinkansen between Tokyo and Osaka resumed operation several hours after the disasters, while the Tōhoku Shinkansen remained out of service for several days.[22]
[edit] Introduction in Europe




High-speed lines in Europe.
  320-350 km/h
  270-300 km/h
  250 km/h
  200-230 km/h







Automotrice à grande vitesse (AGV) being tested at the Velim railway test circuit, Czech Republic






German designed third generation ICE on Cologne-Frankfurt high-speed rail line


Main article: High-speed rail in Europe
Japan’s Shinkansen success contributed to a revival for the HSR idea in Europe – together with rising oil prices, a growing environmental interest, and rising traffic congestion on the roads.
In Europe, high-speed rail started during the International Transport Fair in Munich in June 1965, when DB Class 103 hauled a total of 347 demonstration trains at 200 km/h (124 mph) between Munich and Augsburg. The first regular service at this speed was the TEE "Le Capitole" between Paris and Toulouse with specially adapted SNCF Class BB 9200 locomotives (May 1967).
Great Britain introduced Europe’s first regular above-200 km/h (124 mph)-service, albeit with a small margin, and without building new lines. In the years 1976-82 they made 95 diesel-electric train sets of the type InterCity 125 – called so because of their maximum speed at 125 mph (201 km/h), compared to 100 mph (161 km/h) for their forerunners. Their acceleration was better, too. Thus journey times were reduced, e.g. by an hour on the East Coast Main Line, and the passenger numbers soared. The IC 125 was planned to be followed by a tilting train, APT, to maximize the speed on twisted lines from the Victorian times – but the tilting mechanism brought on nausea in some of the passengers, and the APT project was shelved. This prolonged the IC 125’s lifetime, and even today they serve the nonelectrified mainlines.
In the Continental Europe, several countries started to build new high-speed lines during the 1970s – Italy’s ‘’Direttissima’’ between Rome and Florence, Western Germany’s Hannover–Würzburg and Stuttgart–Mannheim lines, and France’s Paris–Lyon TGV line (LGV Sud-Est). The latter was the world’s fastest when it was completed in 1983 (the Paris–Dijon partition was opened in 1981), with a maximum speed at 260 km/h (162 mph) and average at 214 km/h (133 mph). Fares were affordable and the line became very popular; the air routes between these cities were practically eliminated when the train trips shrunk from about 3½ to two hours. France went on building an extensive high-speed network. In combination with the Belgian and British lines, the Paris-Lille-Calais line allowed the opening of the first HSR international services: Paris-London (1994), London-Brussels (1994), both via the Channel Tunnel,[23] and Brussels-Paris (1995).[24] Germany followed up with its own high-speed network, and after Germany was re-united in 1990, the Hamburg–Berlin line again became a mainline.
Spain’s first high speed line opened in 1992 between Madrid and Seville. In 2005, the Spanish Government announced an ambitious plan, (PEIT 2005-2020)[25] envisioning that by 2020, 90 percent of the population will live within 50 km (31 mi) of a station served by AVE. Spain began building the largest HSR network in Europe: five new lines have been opened (Madrid-Zaragoza-Lleida-Tarragona-Barcelona, Córdoba- Malaga, Madrid-Toledo, Madrid-Segovia-Valladolid, Madrid-Cuenca-Valencia) and another 2,219 km (1,379 mi) are currently under construction.[26] As of December 2010, the Spanish AVE system is the longest HSR network in Europe and the second in the world, after China.[27]
[edit] High-speed rail in China
Main article: High-speed rail in China
In the middle of the 1990s, China's trains used to travel at a top speed of around 60 km/h (37 mph).[28] To increase railway transportation speed and capacity, the Ministry of Railways (MOR) has continuously increased the speed of its commercial train service on existing lines. From 1997 to 2007, the speed of China's railways increased six times, boosting passenger train speed on 22,000 km (14,000 mi) of tracks to 120 km/h (75 mph), on 14,000 km (8,700 mi) of tracks to 160 km/h (99 mph), on 2,876 km (1,787 mi) of tracks to 200 km/h (124 mph) and on 846 km (526 mi) of tracks to 250 km/h (155 mph).[29]
The state plan to develop high speed railways in China first began in the early 1990s. The Ministry of Railways submitted a proposal to build the Beijing–Shanghai high speed railway to the National People's Congress in December 1990.[30] In 1995, Premier Li Peng announced that preparatory work on the Beijing Shanghai HSR would begin in the 9th Five Year Plan (1996–2000). The MOR's initial design for the Jinghu high-speed line was completed and led to a suggestion report for state approval in June 1998. The construction plan finally been determined at 2004 beginning after five years' debate on whether to use rail track or the maglev technology.[31][32]
On 7 January 2004, at a regular meeting of the State Council chaired by Premier Wen Jiabao, the nation’s “medium-and-long term plan of railway network” was discussed and passed in principle. The plan comprised a high-speed railway network consisting of four north-south lines and four west-east lines, with the Beijing-Shanghai railway placed at the top.[32]
When China first decided to develop high speed rail, the original idea was to research and develop domestic technology to reach a world standard. In 1998, China started the construction of its first high speed rail, the Qinhuangdao–Shenyang Passenger Dedicated Line, which was opened in 2003, with a designed speed of 200 km/h (124 mph), and several prototypes meant to reach 300 km/h (186 mph) were tested here, including “China Star”, “Pioneer” and latterly “Changbai Mountain”. However, the fastest operating speed achieved by “Changbai Mountain” was only 180 km/h (112 mph). “China Star” reached 321 km/h (199 mph) in 2003 during a test run but performed poor in daily services.
By 2007, the top speed of Qinshen PDL was increased to 250 km/h (155 mph). On 19 April 2008, Hefei–Nanjing PDL opened, with a top speed of 250 km/h (155 mph). On 1 August 2008, the Beijing–Tianjin Intercity Line was opened, and its top speed reached 350 km/h (217 mph). New trainsets, CRH2C and CRH3C, with designed top operating speed 350 km/h (217 mph), were first put into commercial service. Currently the fastest CRH Service is on the Wuhan–Guangzhou line, opened on 26 December 2009. It travels 968 kilometres (601 mi) in 3 hours reaching top speeds of 350 kilometres per hour (217 mph) and averaging 310 kilometres per hour (190 mph).
On 26 October 2010, China opened its 15th high speed rail, the Shanghai–Hangzhou line, and the CRH380A trainset manufactured by CSR Sifang started regular service. the Beijing–Shanghai High-Speed Railway is set to open by June 2011, The railway line is the first one in the world with designed top speed of 380 km/h (236 mph) in commercial service. and will use the new CRH380 trainsets.[33][34]
Currently China has the world’s longest high-speed rail network with about 8,358 km (5,193 mi)[35] of routes capable for at least 200 km/h (124 mph) running in service as of January 2011, including 2,197 km (1,365 mi) of rail lines with top speeds of 350 km/h (217 mph).[36] According to the MOR's “Mid-to-Long Term Railway Network Plan (revised in 2008)”, the National High-Speed Rail Grid is composed of 8 high-speed rail corridors, 4 north-south corridors and 4 east-west corridors; together with some less important lines the total length will be about 12,000 km (7,456 mi).
In the last year of 2010, China committed investment of CN¥709.1 billion (US$107.9 billion) in railway construction. In the coming year of 2011, China is planning to invest some CN¥700 billion (US$106 billion) in railway construction, start construction of 70 railway projects, including 15 high-speed rail projects. 4,715 kilometres (2,930 mi) of new high-speed railways will be opened, and by the end of this year, China will have 13,073 kilometres (8,123 mi) of railways capable for 200+ km/h running, one year ahead of the original schedule.[37]
According to China Securities Journal, China plans to invest $451 to $602 billion in its high-speed rail network between 2011 to 2015.
In April 2011, the Railway Minister Sheng Guangzu announced that, due to costs concern and increasing the margin of safety, the top speeds of all types of wheeled trains will be reduced to 300 km/h (186 mph), starting from 1 July 2011.[38] However, an exception applies for some lines, including Beijing–Tianjin and Shanghai–Hangzhou, which will still run at up to 350 km/h (217 mph), according to China Railway Ministry.[citation needed]
On 23 July 2011, around 40 people died and 191 were injured in a train accident on a China’s high-speed line raising doubts about China’s high speed system safety[39][40][41]. The accident occurred when a train traveling near Wenzhou lost power after it was struck by lightning. Signals also malfunctioned, causing another train to rear-end the stationary train[42][43][44].[45][46]
Following the deadly crash, China plans to suspend new railway project approvals and launch safety checks on existing equipment.[47][48]
[edit] High-speed rail in the United States




Ten rail corridors identified for potential high-speed development by the federal government in 2009.


Main article: High-speed rail in the United States
High-speed rail in the United States currently consists of one high-speed rail service:[49]:5 Amtrak's Acela Express runs on the Northeast Corridor from Boston to Washington, D.C. Unlike Asian or European systems, the Acela shares its tracks with conventional rail, and thus is limited to an average speed of 68 mph (109 km/h) for the entire distance with brief segments up to 150 mph (240 km/h). A federal allocation of $8 billion for high-speed rail projects as a part of the 2009 stimulus package has prompted U.S. federal and state planners to coordinate the expansion of high-speed service to ten other major rail corridors.[50]
America's first dedicated high-speed rail infrastructure plans are most advanced in California, consisting of a high speed line between Anaheim and San Francisco via Los Angeles and San Jose. The line is scheduled to begin construction by September 2012 (however, delays are expected due to political infighting) in the Central Valley.[51] The new line planned for construction in California would have a top speed in excess of 150 mph (240 km/h) and is classified as a High-Speed Rail–Express corridor.[52]
[edit] High-speed rail in Russia
Main article: High-speed rail in Russia

The Moscow – Saint Petersburg Railway is Russia's highest speed railway with a top speed of 250 km/h (155 mph).[53] The first upgraded 250 km/h service using Siemens Velaro RUS (Sapsan) trains went into service on December 26, 2009.
Helsinki – Saint Petersburg: 200 km/h high-speed service using Karelian Trains Class Sm6 (Allegro) trains started on December 12, 2010, cutting down travel time from 5.5 hours to 3.5 hours. The trains go 200 km/h on most of the Russian part, and 220 km/h on a short stretch in Finland.
Moscow-Nizhny Novgorod route. The high-speed traffic in Nizhny Novgorod began in July 2010.[54] Two Sapsan trains makes shuttle trips between Nizhny Novgorod and Moscow and one between Nizhny Novgorod and Saint Petersburg. The latter route takes 8 hours and 30 minutes, as against previously 14 hours.[55]
New Moscow – Saint Petersburg High-Speed Line: In February, 2010, RZD announced that it will unveil proposals in March, 2010, for a new "European standard" high-speed line between Saint Petersburg and Moscow. The new line would be built to normal Russian gauge and would likely be built parallel to the existing line.[56] At an event on April 1, it was announced that the new Moscow – Saint Petersburg high-speed line would allow trains to run at speeds up to 400 km/h. The total journey time would be cut from 3h 45m to 2h 30m. The new line is expected to make extense use of bridges, tunnels and viaducts. Finance will be provided by a public-private finance vehicle. The line is expected to carry 14 million people in its first year. Representatives from many other high-speed lines will be consulted, in a effort to avoid construction delays and design flaws.[57]

According to RZhD Director Vladimir Yakunin, Russia will have several high-speed railroads by 2012 - 2014.[58]
[edit] Definition of high-speed rail
See also: Passenger rail terminology
There are a number of different definitions for high-speed rail in use worldwide and there is no single standard; however, there are certain parameters that are unique to high-speed rail. UIC (International Union of Railways) and EC Directive 96/58 define high-speed rail as systems of rolling stock and infrastructure which regularly operate at or above 250 km/h (155 mph) on new tracks, or 200 km/h (124 mph) on existing tracks.[1] However lower speeds can be required by local constraints.[1] A definitive aspect of high speed rail is the use of continuous welded rail which reduces track vibrations and discrepancies between rail segments enough to allow trains to pass at speeds in excess of 200 km/h (124 mph). Depending on design speed, banking and the forces deemed acceptable to the passengers, curves radius is above 4.5 kilometres (2.8 mi), and for lines capable for 350 km/h (217 mph) running, typically at 7 to 9 kilometres (4.3 to 5.6 mi). There are also a number of characteristics common to most high-speed rail systems but not required: almost all are electrically driven via overhead lines and have in-cab signalling as well as no level crossings. Advanced switches using very low entry and frog angles are also often used. Magnetic levitation trains fall under the category of high-speed rail due to their association with track oriented vehicles; however their inability to operate on conventional 'rails' often leads to their classification in a separate category.
In the United States, high-speed rail is defined by the U.S. Department of Transportation as reasonably expected to reach sustained speeds of more than 125 mph (201 km/h),[2] and having a speed above 110 mph (177 km/h) by the United States Federal Railroad Administration.[3]
In Japan, high speed Shinkansen lines use standard gauge track rather than narrow gauge track used on most other Japanese lines. These travel at speeds in excess of 260 km/h (162 mph) without level crossings.[59]
In China, there are two grades of high speed lines: Firstly, slower lines running at speeds of between 200 and 250 km/h (124 and 155 mph) which may comprise either freight or passenger trains. Secondly, passenger dedicated high speed rail lines operating at top speeds of up to 350 km/h (217 mph).[60]
[edit] Rationale




500 Series Shinkansen in Japan






Siemens Velaro in Barcelona, Spain


In both Japan and France the initial impetus for the introduction of high speed rail was the need for additional capacity to meet increasing demand for passenger rail travel. By the mid-1950s, the Tōkaidō Main Line in Japan was operating at full capacity, and construction of the first segment of the Tōkaidō Shinkansen between Tokyo and Osaka started in 1959. The Tōkaidō Shinkansen opened on October 1, 1964, in time for the Tokyo Olympics. The situation for the first line in Japan was different from the subsequent lines. The route was already so densely populated and rail oriented that highway development would be extremely costly and one single line between Tokyo and Osaka could bring service to over half the nation's population. In 1959 that was nearly 45 million people; today it is well over 65 million. The Tōkaidō Shinkansen line is the most heavily traveled high speed line in the world, carrying 138 million people in 2009,[61] and the entire Shinkansen network, carrying 322 million, still transports more passengers than all other high speed rail lines in the world combined.
In France the main line between Paris and Lyon was projected to run out of capacity by 1970. In both cases the choice to build a completely separate passenger-only line allowed for the much straighter higher speed lines. The dramatically reduced travel times on both lines, bringing cities within three hours of one another, caused explosions in ridership.[62] It was the commercial success of both lines that inspired those countries and their economies to expand or start high speed rail networks.
In post-World War II United States, improvements in automobiles and aircraft made those means practical for a greater portion of the population than previously. In Europe and Japan, emphasis was given to rebuilding the railways after the war. In the United States, emphasis was given to airports and an extensive national interstate highway system. The U.S. railway had been less competitive as a means of transportation. The lower population density in North America allowed easier construction of a national highway network, but mass highway construction would not have been as easy in the high population densities of the European nations and Japan. Presently, however, as energy costs continue to increase, rail ridership is now increasing across the United States.[63]
In China, the plans for the largest high-speed railway network in history were driven by a combination of capacity constraints on existing lines and a desire to shorten journey times across the nation, whilst promoting development along the route. The construction schedule was significantly accelerated due to additional funding in the 4 trillion CNY stimulus package of 2008 and a number of lines are due to be completed by 2013.
Travel by rail becomes more competitive in areas of higher population density or where gasoline is expensive, because conventional trains are more fuel efficient than cars when ridership is high, similar to other forms of mass transit. Very few high-speed trains consume diesel or other fossil fuels but the power stations that provide electric trains with power can consume fossil fuels. In Japan and France, with very extensive high speed rail networks, a large proportion of electricity comes from nuclear power.[64] Even using electricity generated from coal or oil, high speed trains are significantly more fuel efficient per passenger per kilometer traveled than the typical automobile because of economies of scale in generator technology.[65] For example, on the Eurostar, emissions from travelling by train from London to Paris are 90% lower than by flying.[66] Rail networks, like highways, require large fixed capital investments and thus require a blend of high density and government investment to be competitive against existing capital infrastructure for aircraft and automobiles.[citation needed] Urban density and mass transit have been key factors in the success of European and Japanese railway transport, especially in countries such as the Netherlands, Belgium, Germany, Switzerland, Spain and France.
[edit] Technology




The TGV Sud-Est fleet was built between 1978 and 1988 and connected Paris with Lyon. Originally the sets were built to run at 270 km/h (168 mph), but most were upgraded to 300 km/h (186 mph) for the opening of the LGV Méditerranée.


Much of the technology behind high-speed rail is an improved application of mature standard gauge rail technology using overhead electrification. By building a new rail infrastructure with 20th century engineering, including elimination of constrictions such as roadway at-grade (level) crossings, frequent stops, a succession of curves and reverse curves, and not sharing the right-of-way with freight or slower passenger trains, higher speeds (250–320 km/h, 155–199 mph) are maintained. Total cost of ownership of HSR systems is generally lower than the total costs of competing alternatives (new highway or air capacity). Japanese systems are often more expensive than their counterparts but more comprehensive because they have their own dedicated elevated guideway, no traffic crossings, and disaster monitoring systems. Despite this the largest of the Japanese system's cost is related to the boring of tunnels through mountains, as was in Taiwan. Recent advances in wheeled trains in the last few decades have pushed the speed limits past 400 km/h (250 mph), among the advances being tilting trainsets, aerodynamic designs (to reduce drag, lift, and noise), air brakes, regenerative braking, stronger engines, dynamic weight shifting, etc. Some of the advances were to fix problems, like the Eschede disaster. European high-speed routes typically combine segments on new track, where the train runs at full commercial speed, with some sections of older track on the extremities of the route, near cities.
In France, the cost of construction (which was €10 million/km (US$15.1 million/km) for LGV Est) is minimised by adopting steeper grades rather than building tunnels and viaducts. However, in mountainous Switzerland, tunnels are inevitable. Because the lines are dedicated to passengers, gradients of 3.5%, rather than the previous maximum of 1–1.5% for mixed traffic, are used. Possibly more expensive land is acquired in order to build straighter lines which minimize line construction as well as operating and maintenance costs. In other countries high-speed rail was built without those economies so that the railway can also support other traffic, such as freight. Experience has shown however, that trains of significantly different speeds cause massive decreases of line capacity. As a result, mixed-traffic lines are usually reserved for high-speed passenger trains during the daytime, while freight trains go at night. In some cases, night-time high-speed trains are even diverted to lower speed lines in favour of freight traffic.[citation needed]
[edit] High-speed railways by region




Operational high-speed lines in Europe



Operational high-speed lines in East Asia
  320–350 km/h (199–217 mph)
  270–300 km/h (168–186 mph)
  250 km/h (155 mph)
  200–230 km/h (124–143 mph)
  Under construction
  Other railways




Main article: High-speed rail by country
See also: Planned high-speed rail by country
The following table shows all high speed dedicated lines (speed over 250 km/h, 155 mph) in service and under construction, listed by country. Based on UIC figures (International Union of Railways), it has been updated with other sources (see discussion). Since the purpose is to convey updated information with unified criteria, planned lines are not included. Not all rail lines are dedicated, that is, some high speed rail lines, such as Moscow-St. Petersburg, share lines with local and/or freight trains.
Uzbekistan Tashkent–Samarkand high-speed rail line 344 km



v · d · e
Country
In operation (km)
Under construction (km)
Total Country (km)


 China
6,158
14,160
20,318


 Spain
2,665
1,781
3,744


 Japan
2,118
377
2,495


 France
1,872
730 (140+106+302+182)
2,602


 Germany
1,032
378
1,410


 Italy
923
92[citation needed]
1,015[citation needed]


 Russia
780
400
1,180


 Turkey
447
591
1,038


 Taiwan
345
0
345


 South Korea
330
82
412


 Belgium
209
0
209


 Netherlands
120
0
120


 United Kingdom
113
0
113


 Switzerland
35
72
107


[edit] Maximum speed records
Main article: Land speed record for railed vehicles
[edit] Maximum speed in service




MLX01 maglev train 581 km/h (361 mph) (current world record holder)






World speed record holding (574.8 km/h, 357.2 mph) TGV — the V150






The Shanghai Maglev Train reaches top speeds of 431 km/h (268 mph), the fastest high-speed train in service in the world.


The term "maximum speed" has many meanings here. It can reflect:

maximum average speed between two scheduled stops based on the running times in timetables - daily operation.
maximum speed at which a train is allowed to run safely as set by law or policy on a straight section in daily service with minimal constraints (MOR)
the maximum speed at which an unmodified train is proved to be capable of running
the maximum speed a specially modified train is proved to be capable of running.

A one time specially modified system and trainset record (see land speed record for railed vehicles) was set by the manned TGV's 574.8 km/h (357.2 mph) run. This run was for proof of concept and engineering, not to test normal passenger service.
The record for railed vehicles is 10,325 km/h (6,416 mph) by an unmanned rocket sled by the United States Air Force.
The maximum speed an unmodified train is capable of running was set by the non-wheeled 581 km/h (361 mph) JR-Maglev MLX01 run in 2003. However, even this is not necessarily suitable for passenger operation as there can be concerns such as noise, cost, deceleration time in an emergency, etc.
The Shanghai Maglev Train reaches 431 km/h (268 mph) during its daily service between Longyang Road and Pudong International Airport, holds the speed record of any commercial train services. Besides maglev, the fastest maximum operating speed (MOR) of any segment of any high speed rail line is currently 350 km/h (217 mph), a record held by multiple lines in China, first achieved by the Beijing–Tianjin Intercity Railway in August 2008. In October 2010, the trains on Shanghai–Hangzhou High-Speed Railway have shown an unmodified capability of running 416.6 km/h (258.9 mph) in tests, and thus have been set to run 350 km/h (217 mph) in normal operation.[67]
The highest scheduled average speed between two scheduled stops was held by China Railway High-speed service on Wuhan-Guangzhou High-Speed Railway.[68], from December 26, 2009, until January 29, 2010. Non-stop trains on this line covered the 922 km (573 mi) journey in 2 hours, 57 minutes, at an average speed of 312.5 km/h (194.2 mph) from Wuhan to Guangzhou North. Due to high costs and safety concerns the top speeds in China have been reduced to 300 km/h (186 mph) from July 1, 2011.[38].
From mid 2011, the fastest operating train is the French "TGV POS" with a commercial maximum speed of 320 km/h (199 mph).
[edit] Records in trial runs


Year
Country
Train
Speed
km/h | mph
Comments


1963
Japan
Shinkansen
256
159
First country to develop HSR technology


1965
West Germany
Class 103 locomotive
200
124
Second country to develop HSR technology


1967
France
TGV 001
318
198
Third country to develop HSR technology. Current record for gas-turbine powered train.


1972
Japan
Shinkansen
286
178



1974
West Germany
EET-01
230
143



1974
France
Aérotrain
430.2
267
High speed monorail hovercraft train


1975
West Germany
Comet
401.3
249
Steam rocket propulsion


1978
Japan
HSST-01
307.8
191
Auxiliary rocket propulsion


1978
Japan
HSST-02
110
68



1979
Japan
Shinkansen
319
198



1979
Japan
ML-500R (unmanned)
504
313
Magnetic levitation train


1979
Japan
ML-500R (unmanned)
517
321
Magnetic levitation train


1981
France
TGV
380
236



1985
West Germany
InterCityExperimental
324
201



1987
Japan
MLU001 (manned)
400.8
249
Magnetic levitation train


1988
West Germany
InterCityExperimental
406
252



1988
Italy
ETR 500-X
319
198
Fourth country to develop HSR technology


1988
West Germany
TR-06
412.6
256



1989
West Germany
TR-07
436
271



1990
France
TGV
515.3
320



1992
Japan
Shinkansen
350
217



1993
Japan
Shinkansen
425
264



1993
Germany
TR-07
450
280
Magnetic levitation train


1994
Japan
MLU002N
431
268
Magnetic levitation train


1996
Japan
Shinkansen
446
277



1997
Japan
MLX01
550
342
Magnetic levitation train


1999
Japan
MLX01
552
343
Magnetic levitation train


2002
Spain
AVE S-102 (Talgo 350)
362
225
Fifth country to develop HSR technology


2002
China
China Star
321
199
Sixth country to develop HSR technology


2003
China
Siemens Transrapid 08
501
311



2003
Japan
MLX01
581
361
Current world record holder for unconventional train


2004
South Korea
HSR-350x
352.4
219
Seventh country to develop HSR technology


2006
Spain
AVE S-103 (Siemens Velaro)
404
251
Unmodified commercial trainset


2007
France
V150
574.8
357
Current world record holder on conventional rails


2007
Taiwan
700T series train
350
217



2008
China
CRH3
394.3
245



2010
China
CRH380AL
486.1
302
Current world record holder for unmodified commercial trainset


2011
China
CRH380BL
487.3
303
Modified commercial trainset


[edit] Target areas for high-speed trains




Density of High-speed railway in Europe. km per million inhabitants.






Density of High-speed railway in East-Asia. km per million inhabitants.






Taiwan's Japanese-built 300 km/h operating, 315 km/h capable during test run 700T series train


The early target areas, identified by France, Japan, and the U.S., were connections between pairs of large cities. In France, this was Paris–Lyon, in Japan, Tokyo–Osaka, and in the U.S. the proposals are in high-density areas. The only rail service at present in the U.S. using high-speed trains is the Acela Express in the Northeast Corridor between Boston, New York and Washington, D.C.; it uses tilting trains to achieve speeds of up to 240 km/h (150 mph) on existing tracks. Chicago, with its central location and metropolitan population of approximately 10 million people, is envisioned as the hub of a national high-speed rail network in the U.S. The beginning Midwest phases study a Minneapolis-Milwaukee-Chicago-Detroit link; a Kansas City-St Louis-Chicago link; and a Chicago-Indianapolis-Cincinnati-Columbus, OH link.
In European countries, South Korea, and Japan, dense networks of city subways and railways provide connections with high speed rail lines. Some argue[who?] that cities lacking dense intra-city rail infrastructure, like some cities in the USA, would find low ridership for high speed rail. The argument is that it is incompatible with existing automobile infrastructure. (People will want to drive when traveling in city, so they might as well drive the entire trip). However, others contend that this does not square with the high use of rail transport currently in the Northeast Corridor, where many people living in cities outside the rail link, drive to the commuter train and then commute by train the rest of the way, similar to the way many people drive to an airport, park their cars and then fly to their final destination. Car rentals and taxis can also supplement local public transportation. Increased commercial development is also projected near the destination stations.
Since in Japan intra-city rail daily usage per capita is the highest,[citation needed] it follows naturally[dubious – discuss] that ridership of 6 billion passengers[69] exceeds the French TGV of 1 billion (until 2003), the only other system to reach a billion cumulative passengers.[70] For comparison, the world's fleet of 22,685 aircraft carried 2.1 billion passengers in 2006, according to International Civil Aviation Organization.
The California High-Speed Rail Authority is currently planning lines from the San Francisco Bay and Sacramento to Los Angeles and Irvine via the Central Valley, as well as a line from Los Angeles to San Diego via the Inland Empire. The Texas High Speed Rail and Transportation Corporation is lobbying for a high-speed rail and multimodal transportation corridor in Texas, dubbed the Texas T-Bone. The T-Bone would link Dallas and San Antonio via the South Central Corridor; from roughly the midpoint between these two cities, the Brazos Express corridor would provide a connection to Houston.[71][72] New York State Senator Caesar Trunzo announced a long-term plan to bring high-speed rail service between Buffalo and New York City, via Albany, to under three hours.[73]
Later high speed rail lines, such as the LGV Atlantique, the LGV Est, and most high speed lines in Germany, were designed as feeder routes branching into conventional rail lines, serving a larger number of medium-sized cities.
A side effect of the first high-speed rail lines in France was the opening up of previously isolated regions to fast economic development. Some newer high-speed lines have been planned primarily for this purpose, such as the Madrid–Sevilla line and the proposed Amsterdam–Groningen line. Cities relatively close to a major city may see an increase in population, but those farther away may actually lose population (except for tourist spots), having a ripple effect on local economies.
Five years after construction began on the line, the first Japanese high-speed rail line opened on the eve of the 1964 Olympics in Tokyo, connecting the capital with Osaka. The first French high-speed rail line, or Ligne à grande vitesse (LGV), was opened in 1981 by SNCF, the French rail agency, planning starting in 1966 and construction in 1976.
'Market segmentation has principally focused on the business travel market. The French original focus on business travelers is reflected by the early design of the TGV trains, including the bar car. Pleasure travel was to be a secondary market; now many of the French extensions connect with vacation beaches on the Atlantic and Mediterranean, as well as major amusement parks and also the very popular Alpine ski resorts in France or Switzerland. Friday evenings are the peak time for TGVs (train à grande vitesse) (Metzler, 1992). The system has lowered prices on long distance travel to compete more effectively with air services, and as a result some cities within an hour of Paris by TGV have become commuter communities, thus increasing the market while restructuring land use.' (Levinson, D.)
On the Paris - Lyon service, the number of passengers grew to impressive numbers justifying the introduction of double-decks coaches on the TGV trainsets.
Other target areas include freight lines, such as the Trans-Siberian Railway in Russia, which would allow 3 day Far East to Europe service for freight as opposed to months by ship (but still slower than air), and allow just in time deliveries. High speed north-south freight lines in Switzerland are under construction, avoiding slow mountainous truck traffic, and lowering labour costs. Most recently the Yucatan Peninsula in Mexico has highlighted as one of the most probable areas for the development of high speed rail in Latin America with the Transpeninsular Fast Train for bidding in September 2011.[74]
[edit] Road rail parallel layout
Road Rail Parallel Layout uses land beside highways for railway lines. Examples include the HSR line from Paris to Lyon with 15% of its length along highways, and the line between Cologne and Frankfurt with 70% of its length along highways.[75]
[edit] Comparison with other modes of transport




E4 Series Shinkansen






Allegro train near Helsinki


High speed rail is often viewed as an isolated system and simply as advantageous or disadvantageous as compared to other transport systems, but all transport systems must work together to maximize benefits. A good HSR system has capacity for non-stop and local services and has good connectivity with other transport systems. HSR, like any transport system, is not inherently convenient, fast, clean, nor comfortable. All of this depends on design, implementation, maintenance, operation and funding. Operational smoothness is often more indicative of organizational discipline than technological prowess.
Due to current infrastructure designs in many nations, there are constraints on the growth of the highway and air travel systems. Some key factors promoting HSR are that airports and highways have no room to expand, and are often overloaded. High-speed rail has the potential for high capacity on its fixed corridors (double decked E4 Series Shinkansen can carry 1,634 seated passengers, double that of an Airbus A380 in all economy class, and even more if standing passengers are allowed), and has the potential to relieve congestion on the other systems. Well-established high speed rail systems in use today are more environmentally friendly than air or road travel. This is due to:

displaced usage from more environmentally damaging modes of transport.
lower energy consumption per passenger kilometer
reduced land usage for a given capacity compared to motorways

[edit] Automobiles




Eurostar


HSR is competitive with cars on shorter distances, 50–150 kilometres (30–90 mi), for example for commuting, if there is road congestion or expensive parking fees.
High-speed rail has the advantage over automobiles in that it can accommodate more passengers at speeds far faster than those allowed by car in most countries. The lower limit for HSR (200 km/h, 125 mph) is substantially faster than the highest road speed limit in most countries. Ignoring the few countries without a general speed limit, the speed limit is rarely higher than 130 km/h (80 mph). For journeys that connect city centre to city centre, HSR's advantage is increased due to the lower speed limits (and frequent traffic jams) within most urban areas. Generally, the longer the journey, the better the time advantage of rail over road if going to the same destination.
Moreover, railroad tracks permit a far higher throughput of passengers per hour than a road the same width. A high speed rail needs just a double track railway, one track for each direction. A typical capacity is 15 trains per hour and 800 passengers per train (as for the Eurostar sets), which implies a capacity of 12,000 passengers per hour in each direction. By way of contrast, the Highway Capacity Manual gives a maximum capacity for a single lane of highway of 2,250 passenger cars per hour (excluding trucks or RVs). Assuming an average vehicle occupancy of 1.57 people,[76] a standard twin track railway has a typical capacity 13% greater than a 6-lane highway (3 lanes each way), while requiring only 40% of the land (1.0/3.0 versus 2.5/7.5 hectares per kilometer of direct/indirect land consumption). This means that typical passenger rail carries 2.83 times as many passengers per hour per meter (width) as a road. Some passenger rail systems, such as the Tokaido Shinkansen line in Japan, have much higher ratios (with as many as 20,000 passengers per hour per direction). Congested roadways tend to be commuter – these carry fewer than 1.57 persons per vehicle (Washington State Department of Transportation, for instance, uses 1.2 persons per vehicle) during commute times. Congestion also causes the maximum throughput of a lane to decrease.
[edit] Aircraft
[edit] Optimal distance




The ETR 500 "Frecciarossa" of the Italian Railways, with a maximum speed of 300 km/h (190 mph). It takes an hour from Milan to Bologna, while a plane with taxis takes an hour and a half.


While commercial high-speed trains have maximum speeds slower than jet aircraft, they have advantages over air travel for short distances. They connect city centre rail stations to each other, while air transport connects airports outside city centres. However unless air travel is severely congested, there is often not a financial basis for building an HSR system from scratch.[citation needed]
HSR is best suited for journeys of 2 to 3 hours (about 250–900 km or 160–560 mi), for which the train can beat air and car trip time. When traveling less than about 650 km (400 mi), the process of checking in and going through security screening at airports, as well as the journey to the airport, makes the total air journey time no faster than HSR. Authorities in Europe treat HSR for city pairs as competitive with passenger air at 4 to 4½ hours, allowing a 1 hour flight at least 40 minutes at each point for travel to and from the airport, check-in, security, boarding, disembarkation, and baggage retrieval.[77]
Part of HSR's edge may be travel cost. As an example, the 520 km (320 mi) flight from Nanjing to Wuhan cost 730 yuan, while the intercity bullet trains beginning service in 2009 have second-class tickets for 180 yuan.[78]
Part of HSR's edge is convenience. These conveniences include the lack of a requirement to check baggage, no repeated queuing for check-in, security and boarding, as well as high on-time reliability as compared to air. HSR has more amenities, such as cell phone support, booth tables, elaborate power outlets (AC mains outlet vs DC 12 V outlet), elaborate food service, no low-altitude electronics ban, self-service baggage storage areas (eliminating needing to checked baggage), and wireless Internet broadband.
There are routes where high-speed trains have beaten air transport, so that there are no longer air connections. Examples are Paris-Brussels and Cologne-Frankfurt in Europe, Nanjing-Wuhan and Chongqing-Chengdu in China,[78] Tokyo-Nagoya, Tokyo-Sendai and Tokyo-Niigata in Japan. If the train stops at a big airport these short distance airplanes lose an advantage for travelers who want to go to the airport for a long-distance journey. Airplane tickets can include a train segment for the journey, with guaranteed rebooking if the connection is missed, as with normal air travel.
China Southern Airlines, China's largest airline, expects the construction of China's high speed railway network to impact 25% of its route network in the coming years.[79]
[edit] Market shares
Statistics from Europe indicate that air traffic is more sensitive than road traffic (car and bus) to competition from HSR, at least on journeys of 400 km and more – perhaps because cars and buses are far more flexible than planes (on the shortest HSR journeys, like Augsburg–Munich, which is served by four ICE routes, air travel is no alternative). TGV Sud-Est reduced the travelling time Paris–Lyon from almost four to about two hours. The rail market share rose from 49 to 72 %. For air and road traffic, the market shares shrunk from 31 to 7 % and from 29 to 21 %, respectively. On the Madrid–Sevilla relation, the AVE connection rose the rail market share from 16 to 52 ; air traffic shrunk from 40 to 13 %; road traffic from 44 to 36 %, hence the rail market amounted to 80% of the combined rail and air traffic.[80] This figure increased to 89% in 2009, according to the Spanish rail operator RENFE[81]
According to Peter Jorritsma, the rail market share y, as compared to planes, can be computed approximately as a function of the travelling time in minutes x by the formula[82]



According to this formula, a journey time of three hours yields 65 % market share. However, market shares are also influenced by ticket prices, so some air carriers have regained market shares by price slashing.[83]
In the US Northeast Corridor, the rail market share between New York and Washington is lower than the formula indicates, 47 %, even though the journey time by the Acela Express is only about 2h 45min.
[edit] Other considerations
Although air travel has higher speeds, more time is needed for taxiing, boarding (fewer doors), security check, luggage drop, and ticket check. Also rail stations are usually located nearer to urban centers than airports. These factors often offset the speed advantage of air travel for mid-distance trips.
[edit] Construction costs



This section is empty. You can help by adding to it.


[edit] Weather
Rail travel has less weather dependency than air travel. If the rail system is well-designed and well-operated, severe weather conditions such as heavy snow, heavy fog, and storms do not affect the journeys; whereas flights are generally canceled or delayed under these conditions. Nevertheless, snow and wind can cause some issues and can delay trains.
[edit] Comfort
Although comfort over air travel is often believed to be a trait of high speed rail because train seats are larger and it is easy for passengers to move around during the journey, the comfort advantage of rail is not inherent; it depends on the specific implementation. For example, high speed trains which are not subject to compulsory reservation may carry some standing passengers. Airplanes do not allow standing passengers, so excess passengers are denied boarding. Train passengers can have the choice between standing or waiting for a bookable connection.
[edit] Larger number of target areas
From the operator's point of view, a single train can call at multiple stations, often far more stops than aircraft, and each stop takes much less down time. One train stopping pattern can allow a multitude of possible journeys, increasing the potential market. This increase in potential market allows the operator to schedule more frequent departures than the aircraft, and hence create another good reason for preference.
[edit] Safety
From the point of view of required traffic control systems and infrastructure, high-speed rail has the added advantage of being much simpler to control due to its predictable course, even at very high passenger loads; this issue is becoming more relevant as air traffic reaches its safe limit in busy airspaces over London, New York, and other large centers. High-speed rail systems reduce (but do not eliminate[84][85]) the possibility of collisions with automobiles or people, while lower speed rail systems used by high speed trains may have level crossings.
[edit] Narrow gauge




Japanese 683 series EMU, which run at up to 160 km/h on narrow-gauge track


A number of locations around the world operate comparatively high speed services on narrow-gauge tracks. Japan has services that run at up to 160 km/h on 1,067 mm (3 ft 6 in) tracks, and Queensland's Tilt Train also runs at 160 km/h on upgraded and realigned routes. The Queensland Rail specifications for new rail construction have minimum curve and ruling grade restrictions intended to permit future speeds of 160 km/h or greater. Tunisia is reputed to have the fastest metre gauge trains,[86] with some services operating between Tunis–Sfax at up to 130 km/h.[87]
[edit] Read more at en.wikipedia.org 

Comment 





Leave a comment:






To post your comment, please sign in with one of the following...

















How would American capitalists manage a privatized Amtrak?

1 day  ago by Twisted Politix in Science
If the American government has performed less than adequate with the passenger rail system in the USA, how would the capitalists manage it? The same way they have managed banking - to the brink and then ask for a bailout? Or the same way they manage oil - extract at the fastest rate possible, charge sky high rates in the USA, and dump in others? Or the same way they manage high tech? With spurting growth and spewing boom declines? Or the same way the defense industry works? Willing to stir up international disputes and fear of government in order to create war to sell more goods?

Really, I am looking for a good capitalist industry to model on.  Which ones are the most humane, the steadiest, and the least violent? 

And how would or government oversee the industry? With all stick and no carrot?Amplify’d from cei.orgPrivatize Amtrak the Right Way, Avoiding Pitfalls of British Experience, by Iain MurrayMurray Op-ed in The Balimore Sun

													By
											
						Iain Murray 
						June 21, 2005					WASHINGTON - Given its recent troubles, Amtrak's flagship Northeast corridor high-speed Acela train might as well be renamed "Decela." Amtrak officials suspended the service and acknowledged that they had been unaware of a serious problem with Acela's brakes. Yet the root of Amtrak's problem lies with that word: "officials." However much they might pretend, the people running Amtrak aren't businessmen, dedicated to selling a product to customers. They're bureaucrats, whose main task is to get more money out of Congress, even if it means providing a lousy service. In such a situation, there is little incentive to change.So what to do? A look across the Atlantic might help. Britain, a nation with much in common with the United States, recently has been down this road, and we can learn from the British experience in figuring out what's next for Amtrak.In the 1980s, British Rail was as big a national joke as Amtrak. It often ran late, it was accident-prone and it wasted millions in taxpayers' funds by trying to develop a train that could tilt when turning corners. Its staff was surly, and strikes were commonplace. Its catering service was so bad that jokes about the "British Rail sandwich"—a moldy piece of ham between two pieces of cardboard that might once have been bread—still get laughs. In short, British Rail was not delivering.So in the early 1990s, the government decided to apply the same solution that had sorted out other former "national joke" industries—privatization. The solution worked at first. For a couple of years after privatization, the network boomed. Passenger numbers rose by one-third, the service provided more trains, prices dropped and the trains even ran on time.Yet that all changed because of the artificial structure that was imposed on the industry by a botched privatization. The British Rail monolith was split into more than 30 different companies according to their function—track ownership, train operation, maintenance, etc. This "horizontal" privatization—which stands in sharp contrast to the "vertical" approach of splitting up the industry into regional, integrated companies—was a disaster.The problem was that the gaps between the companies left room for the regulators to creep in. For example, when communication breakdowns led to fatal accidents, the safety authorities demanded expensive fixes. Regulators were responsible to government ministers, not consumers.Under nationalization, ministers could instruct their appointees about what to do, but those appointees could argue back. Under the so-called privatized structure, ministers acted through the regulator, with the power of fines at his command. Political control of the new industry was all stick and no carrot.Eventually, the government renationalized one of the major companies without paying its stockholders a penny. The fragmented industry was powerless to resist. Rather than provide innovative solutions to Britain's transportation problems, the remaining private rail companies were reduced to servants, subsisting on government largesse.If a successor to Amtrak is to succeed, government needs to get its nose out of the business. The White House should apply only the lightest of regulatory touches, while members of Congress need to stop worrying about whether their districts are served by services that few people ever use.So how to apply the lessons from Britain while avoiding the pitfalls? Thankfully, there is a model here for that. The 1980 Staggers Act deregulated freight railroads and slashed the powers of the Interstate Commerce Commission, which had been strangling innovation and deterring investment for decades.Combining these two approaches—British privatization and American deregulation of an integrated system—should provide a viable solution to the Amtrak problem. Those who need trains will get better ones, ones with brakes that work, while the nation will be spared a serious drain of cash (the Acela problem alone is costing $1 million a week).Privatization done right would provide better service at a lower cost. It's time to accelerate that process.Read more at cei.org 

Comment 





Leave a comment:






To post your comment, please sign in with one of the following...

















The Privatization of Amtrak Could Restore America

1 day  ago by Twisted Politix in Science
I am not familiar with the details of this particular bill but if the details are hashed out in the academic circles then perhaps we could get it right.  This could be Mexico's restoration plan as well but with a different angle.  Mexico has some of the oldest and most prestigious universities in the new world.  If Mexico hosted the peak oil and transition conferences they could begin to attract some of the finest academics in the world to discuss the next evolution of modern civilization - they could frame the next revolution. From capitalism, socialism, and communism to some other ism.  Hopefully the next one will last longer and be less violent.Amplify’d from thehill.com
GOP unveils plan to privatize Amtrak


						By Keith Laing					
															-
															
						06/15/11 12:48 PM ET					
House Republicans said private companies could provide high-speed rail faster and more cheaply than Amtrak as they rolled out their plan to privatize rail service in the Northeast on Tuesday. House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman John Mica (R-Fla.) told reporters that the bill, which he said would be introduced next Tuesday, could achieve high-speed rail in the Northeast in 10 years. Amtrak currently has a 30-year plan.Mica said the GOP privatization plan would cost less than Amtrak's $117 billion plan, which he said was important given the political climate in Washington. Mica also said he doesn't think the Amtrak trains would be truly high-speed. "People are going to turn blue waiting for Congress to provide that money," he said. "They're also going to turn blue waiting for a high-speed train [from Amtrak]." The high-speed rail envisioned by Mica would provide faster service for passengers traveling to locations between Washington and Boston than the Acela line operated by Amtrak. The proposal would remove Amtrak from control of the federally-designated northeast rail corridor and transfer it to the Department of Transportation. A newly-created Northeast Corridor Executive Committee would oversee bidding process for rail projects in the northeast.Democrats on Mica's panel strongly disagreed with his assessment that private companies could better deliver rail service than Amtrak, rushing to the agency's defense Wednesday as Mica was speaking at the Capitol. "Taking a play out of President Bush’s book, Republicans are dusting off a chronically unpopular proposal that will cripple Main Street by auctioning off Amtrak’s assets to Wall Street,” the ranking Democrat on the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, Rep. Nick J. Rahall (D-W.Va.), said in a statement released Wednesday morning. “Instead of abolishing Amtrak, Republicans should abandon this ill-conceived ideological assault on passenger rail service – just as we did when President Bush first proposed it – and work with Democrats to build true high-speed and intercity passenger rail in America,” Rahall said. Rahall called the privatization plan, which Mica is co-sponsoring with Rep. Bill Shuster (R-Pa.), "a death knell for passenger rail service from coast to coast."Privatizing this profitable corridor will not merely affect train service in that region; it will have a devastating domino effect from coast to coast, leaving trains stuck at the station across the Nation,” Rahall said. “The Auto Train, Capitol Limited, California Zephyr, Cardinal, Coast Starlight, Empire Builder, Palmetto and Silver Service, Texas Eagle and so many other vital lifelines will no longer serve as engines of economic growth but will be mere relics of a bygone era.”However, Republicans found Democratic support from former Pennsylvania Gov. Ed Rendell, who is now an MSNBC political analyst and co-chairman of an advocacy group dedicated to infrastructure improvements known as Building America's Future. Rendell called into Mica's press conference to say that he is a supporter of Amtrak, but the privatization plan made sense to him. "I'm not a critic of Amtrak. Far from it," he said. "But the only way you're going to get that money to make this project a reality is you have the states, the federal government and private companies at the table."Rendell went on to try to preempt criticism similar to Rahall's, saying "this shouldn't be viewed as anti-Amtrak. "It should be viewed as a proposal by those that support high-speed rail," he said.Mica, who has frequently referred to Amtrak as a "Soviet-style operation," also tried to soften the perception of the bill, saying that it did not prevent Amtrak from bidding for contracts or teaming up with other companies that were interested in providing the rail service in the Northeast. "If Amtrak can compete, we'll allow them to compete," he said. "We know they can't provide this service by themselves. They've testified in this room that they can't. But if they can partner with someone, we haven't prohibited them." Mica added that private rail service in the Northeast could become profitable enough to subsidize private-public partnership in other parts of the country where Amtrak is currently losing money as the sole provider of rail service. "We think the Northeast will be the cash cow and we can pour that money back in to some of those that want commuter rail improvements," he said. Amtrak CEO Joseph Boardman will respond to Mica's legislation in a 2 p.m. conference call with reporters.This post was updated at 3:18 p.m. 

Source: http://thehill.com/blogs/transportation-report/railroads/166601-gop-unveils-plan-to-privatize-rail-service-provided-by-amtrak
The contents of this site are © 2011 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc.
Read more at thehill.com 

Comment 





Leave a comment:






To post your comment, please sign in with one of the following...

















America Spends More than the Rest of the World Combined - On the Military and on Debt

4 days  ago by Twisted Politix in Politics
$14.6T is more than the rest of the world debt combined.
$750B on defense spending is more than the rest of the world combined.

We probably spend more than the rest of the world combined on healthcare, housing, political campaigns, and energy too.

GNH (gross national happiness) would suggest its a wasteAmplify’d from www.businessinsider.comINFOGRAPHIC: The American Debt Crisis 
oBizMedia
|
Aug. 31, 2011,  5:36 AM
|
2,494
|


7 
Read more at www.businessinsider.com 

Comment 





Leave a comment:






To post your comment, please sign in with one of the following...

















Addictions From Legal to Illegal Drugs to Internet, Porn, Online Games, Gambling, and Cell Phones

5 days  ago by Twisted Politix in Science
Amplify’d from www.jornada.unam.mxLuis Eugenio Todd presentó recientemente su libro Adicciones, enfermedades del siglo XXIUso compulsivo de Internet activa la misma zona cerebral que la drogaEsa actividad en el sistema límbico también la genera el empleo excesivo de los celulares y los videojuegosExisten individuos más propensos genéticamente a ser adictos, expresaEmir Olivares AlonsoPeriódico La JornadaMiércoles 31 de agosto de 2011, p. 2El uso compulsivo de Internet, de teléfonos móviles y de videojuegos activa el sistema límbico del cerebro, mismo que se altera cuando se consume alguna droga (mariguana, cocaína, alcohol o tabaco). De ahí que el empleo de esas tecnologías llegue, en ocasiones, a generar adicción, expuso Luis Eugenio Todd, coordinador de Ciencia y Tecnología del gobierno de Nuevo León.El científico, quien acaba de publicar el libro Adicciones, enfermedades del siglo XXI, que se presentó la semana pasada en Monterrey, indicó que esa región cerebral está ligada a los satisfactores, por lo que también el sexo, la comida, hacer las compras y los juegos de apuestas influyen en ella.Aseguró que el problema de la adicción no está relacionado con las sustancias o las herramientas tecnológicas, sino que existen individuos más propensos genéticamente a ser adictos, a lo que se debe sumar la depresión y ansiedad en las que sistema globalizado ha sumergido a la humanidad.El cerebro, señaló, está dividido en dos partes: el sistema límbico, ligado a la supervivencia, a los instintos animales, donde se generan el miedo, el hambre, el deseo sexual y la sed, y el área cortical, que nos diferencia de los animales, donde están los pensamientos, la razón y el conocimiento.Todd, ex rector de la Universidad Autónoma de Nuevo León y ex subsecretario de Educación Superior de la Secretaría de Educación Pública, indicó que el cerebro humano siempre debe tener un equilibrio entre la razón y la emoción; sin embargo, cuando existe una adicción predomina la segunda.Subrayó que la ludopatía, el uso de tecnologías de la información y la comunicación como la Internet, los teléfonos móviles, las redes sociales, las compras, el sexo e incluso comer pueden volverse adicciones si los humanos realizan estas actividades de manera compulsiva y como forma de encontrar satisfacciones que no tienen en su vida cotidiana.Hay personas adictas a las compras, que en muchos casos son la manera que tienen de sacar su angustia y depresión. Se trata de una adicción compulsiva favorecida por el consumismo, generado por la mercantilización.Otra de las llamadas nuevas adicciones es el uso constante de las tecnologías de la información y la comunicación (TIC). Muchas personas han desarrollado una dependencia a estas herramientas: la Internet, el celular; ahora los muchachos son la generación Twitter. En ocasiones se les quita la computadora o el teléfono móvil y su cara muestra una angustia semejante a la que hace un alcohólico o un adicto a la cocaína cuando se le retiran esas sustancias. Sicológica y biológicamente la reacción es la misma.Para el especialista las adicciones están relacionadas con agentes genéticos, fisiológicos y por los patrones culturales, y no necesariamente son las sustancias, las TIC o los juegos de azar los que provocan esa enfermedad. “Hay personas más propensas a caer en ello, aunque aún se estudian los porqués.La dependencia a una droga o a las nuevas adicciones se puede acelerar cuando se presenta ansiedad o angustia, cuando el ser humano no encuentra respuestas en sus motivaciones sicológicas, espirituales, sociales y físicas. Hoy el mundo se encuentra sumergido en un capitalismo salvaje que nos ha arrancado los valores. Hay una tendencia entre las personas a buscar los satisfactores fuera de ellos; estamos en una sociedad plástica, hoy importa más lo que tienes que lo que eres. Ya no estamos dispuestos a dar por los demás, sólo queremos recibir.Esto, dijo, ha generado que la humanidad se encuentre en una especie de depresión y ansiedad. Hoy, los medicamentos que más prescriben los médicos tan sólo en Estados Unidos son los antidepresivos, seguidos de los ansiolíticos.En el asunto de las drogas ilegales, Todd se pronunció por que el país se abra a un debate para evaluar los resultados de la actual política anticrimen y antidroga, pues la actual estrategia no ha funcionado.Planteó como una medida de solución la legalización del consumo de drogas y que el Estado regule su distribución: No podemos seguir la política de doble moral estadunidense; científicamente se ha demostrado que es más dañino el consumo de alcohol y el cigarrillo. Hay que abrirle la puerta al conocimiento y no a la sin razón de la política del poder.Read more at www.jornada.unam.mx 

Comment 





Leave a comment:






To post your comment, please sign in with one of the following...

















Denationalization or Decentralization to Fight Austerity Measures

6 days  ago by Twisted Politix in Business
How many local economies would like to separate from their national overlords? This is a common conversation in Europe.  The Basque country of Spain, Catalan, for example.  In the USA, succession was part of the cause of the civil war and most likely the all powerful Federal government would tell the separatists that their national security would be at risk.  Exactly why many might prefer to be considered outside the USA.Amplify’d from www.cnbc.comItalian Town Mints Own Money to Fight Austerity Published:
						Tuesday, 30 Aug 2011 | 7:10 AM ET A small town in central Italy is trying to go independent and mint its own money in protest at government austerity cuts. Filettino, set in rugged hill country around 100 km (65 miles) east of Rome, is rebelling against a proposal to merge the governments of towns with fewer than 1,000 inhabitants to save money. Filettino has only around 550 people, but instead of merging with neighboring Trevi, mayor Luca Sellari is trying to go it alone and set up a "principality" along the lines of the famous republic of San Marino to the north. He has started minting Filettino's own bank currency, the "Fiorito," with his photo on the back, which he says is already being used by the townsfolk. "We aim to achieve real autonomy from Italy and we have the financial resources to do it," Sellari said in an interview on the town's website www.principatodifilettino.com There was no immediate comment from the central government in Rome. Mayors from all over Italy are up in arms about proposals to cut local government funding and merge small towns as part of a 45.5 billion euro ($65.3 billion) austerity plan to balance the country's budget by 2013. Mayors plan a protest in Milan Monday although media reports say the government is preparing significant changes to the budget, including a substantial dilution of the proposals on local government. Read more at www.cnbc.com 

Comment 





Leave a comment:






To post your comment, please sign in with one of the following...
















 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Older »

 


 


Name: Twisted Politix

Location: North AmericaTwitter: @TwistedPolitixWeb: paper.li/TwistedPol...Bio: Investigating sustainable trade & energy policy with a twist.  Follow me if you are interested in #geopolitics, #energy, #hemp, #transition #renewable 

90PostsFollow



See Twisted Politix's profile
Twisted Politix's Recent Activitycommented on Twisted Politix's clipThe Barbie, American Drug Lord in Acapulco, CIA plant? #narconews #Collapse #MCRcommented on Twisted Politix's clipJourney to Rediscover the Americas - The Race from Niagara to IguazuWhat I'm reading aboutamtrak
brazil
china
collapse
defense spending
education
energy
federal reserve
gold
gold standard
gop
hemp
high speed rail
imf
inflation
la jornada
mexico
middle class
obama
oil
peak oil
peakoil
predatory capitalism
privatize
rockefeller
ron paul
United Nations
united states
usa
usd
wall street
war



















Today's Featured Users

Richard KruegerBernie DeKovenmediacollectiveScrappinMichelealwaysme3David C.



Popular Topics
PoliticsScienceSocial mediaEconomyReligionTechnologyPsychologyFoodEnergyClimate

Amplog Archive
September 2011


M
T
W
T
F
S
S




« Aug
 
 




 1234


567891011


12131415161718


19202122232425


2627282930
 







© 2010 Clipmarks, LLC
			  
			
Terms of Service
Copyright
Privacy
About
FAQ
Bookmarklet
Mobile
Public Timeline


Amplify™   Powered by WordPress MU



