Dao De Sam - powered by FeedBurner
&



Dao De Sam

syndicated content powered by FeedBurner






...

Reset this favorite; show all Subscribe options



Subscribe Now!
...with web-based news readers. Click your choice below:







...with other readers:

(Choose Your Reader)FeedDemonNetNewsWireNewsFireNewsGator Outlook EditionRSSOwlShrookUniversal Subscription Mechanism (USM)


 View Feed XML




FeedBurner makes it easy to receive content updates in My Yahoo!, Newsgator, Bloglines, and other news readers.

Learn more about syndication and FeedBurner...

Current Feed Content



American Sexual Identity Crisis


Posted: 2011-09-01 02:07:32 UTC-07:00
Living abroad you are bound to mix with people you never thought you would. In any big city anywhere in the world, like, for example, my former temporary home, Guangzhou, China, you will find a diverse community of expatriates, people living outside their home country, that group themselves together for no other reason than they are also not from here. You meet people in bars from countries that you would struggle to locate on a map or even spell. To cite one example, while watching the US vs. Ghana match in last summer’s World Cup, I had to endure constant abuse from a good friend of mine, also named Samuel, who is in fact from Ghana. From associating with such an odd assortment of individuals, you sometimes notice things you never would at home. One thing I noticed almost immediately was that very few expats date other expats from their own home country or part of the world. You would think that in such a foreign environment, people would cling to things that reminded them of home, and thus, attach themselves to other Americans, for example, but it seems the opposite is the case. Of course, I will be generalizing here to a great degree, and there are always exceptions, but in my experience in such circumstances, I have found two basic guidelines. Men from the US and Western Europe see Asian and Eastern European women as the ideal mate, while the modern woman prefers South American, African and, surprisingly to me anyway, Middle Eastern men.  Why would this be true? I would venture to say that we see qualities in these groups that we think are absent or lacking in potential mates from our own culture. Both the delicate Asian flower and the macho Latin lover are stereotypes we are familiar with. The Asian woman is shown as beautiful, quiet, and devoted to their man. The Latin man oozes with confidence and seduces the unlikeliest targets, and “makes them feel like a woman.” They appeal to us so because they represent they represent pure femininity or masculinity. Part of the reason they seem this way to us is because they come from less evolved cultures with more clearly defined sex roles. We in this country believe in the equality of men and women. It doesn’t seem to make sense that men would fantasize about women who would be completely dependent on them, or that women would idealize a man who would control and dominate their life. The truth is that there are some facts about human life that don’t fit with our progressive world view. While men and women are equal, THAT DOES NOT MEAN THEY ARE EXACTLY THE SAME. The Asian and Eastern European woman embodies the traditional feminine virtues; passive, soft, beautiful, receptive. The South American, African and Arabic man represents traditional masculine virtues; confidence, strength, engaging, charismatic. Ignoring these differences is to deny reality. So, I theorize that the reason behind this glorification of the extremes in gender roles is that Americans are not really satisfied with the options they have in their own countrymen or countrywomen. Somehow we have reached a point where our men aren’t quite as manly and our women aren’t quite as womanly. Women are determined to not show weakness, and men are determined to show they are sensitive and caring. Now, I’m not saying this is right or wrong, good or bad. All I’m saying is that these are relatively new developments in man/woman relations, and a deviation from, well, pretty much, the entirety of human history. I partially blame the media for America’s sexual frustration. Sitcoms, romantic comedies, and even commercials influence our ideas about gender and sexuality. Have you ever noticed that in 99% of commercials and family sitcoms the male characters are bumbling idiots that can’t do anything without their wives holding their hands? What about how women root for the nice guy in the romantic comedy but go for the bad boy in real life? Other examples of the media turning traditional sex roles on their heads include the obligatory hot female reporter attached to every sporting event, or TV personalities who sabotage their own gender. I’m looking at you, Dr. Phil. What we end up with are unrealistic expectations of our partner. Women say they want a funny guy, who is sensitive, not afraid to cry, but also a rugged outdoorsman and a Mr. Fix-It around the house. Men simply want pot smoking, sports fanatic supermodels. These are unrealistic expectations. MOST outdoorsy men aren’t known for sharing their feelings. MOST beautiful women could care less about sports. MOST witty intellectuals seldom ever do more work around the house than changing a light bulb. These expectations we have for our mates point to the real root of the problem. We look to our lover to fulfill all our unfulfilled social needs, and inevitably end up disappointed.  In a world where we are more connected to other people than ever, I would argue we are also more isolated from other people than ever. Kurt Vonnegut in God Bless You, Dr. Kevorkian talks about the reason for the sky high divorce rate in our country. "OK, now let’s have some fun. Let’s talk about sex. Let’s talk about women. Freud said he didn’t know what women wanted. I know what women want. They want a whole lot of people to talk to. What do they want to talk about? They want to talk about everything. 

What do men want? They want a lot of pals, and they wish people wouldn’t get so mad at them. 

Why are so many people getting divorced today? It’s because most of us don’t have extended families anymore. It used to be that when a man and a woman got married, the bride got a lot more people to talk to about everything. The groom got a lot more pals to tell dumb jokes to. 

A few Americans, but very few, still have extended families. The Navahos. The Kennedys. 

But most of us, if we get married nowadays, are just one more person for the other person. The groom gets one more pal, but it’s a woman. The woman gets one more person to talk to about everything, but it’s a man. 

When a couple has an argument, they may think it’s about money or power or sex, or how to raise the kids, or whatever. What they’re really saying to each other, though, without realizing it, is this: 
“You are not enough people!” 

I met a man in Nigeria one time, an Ibo who has six hundred relatives he knew quite well. His wife had just had a baby, the best possible news in any extended family. 

They were going to take it to meet all its relatives, Ibos of all ages and sizes and shapes. It would even meet other babies, cousins not much older than it was. Everybody who was big enough and steady enough was going to get to hold it, cuddle it, gurgle to it, and say how pretty it was, or handsome. 

Wouldn't you have loved to be that baby?"
Many of the peoples from Africa, or Asia, or the Middle East have not lost this sense of family and community from their cultures. Parents still rely on their children to take care of them when they are old. Women congregate and talk in the kitchen, while the men bullshit, brag, and tell stupid jokes out in the fields. Things are changing everywhere, but in what we would call less advanced societies the gender roles are still closely differentiated because the people maintain some aspects of the clan, family, community way of life that got us all to this point. Girls always want someone to constantly gossip with. Men always want someone to constantly chill out and be bros with, but your girl ain’t your bro, and your man ain’t your girlfriend. If we continue to demand the impossible from our partners, only frustration and suffering will follow. If you accept the person you care about for the person they are and fulfill your other social needs through family and friendships, your relationship will thrive. Men should be men, and women should be women, and there is nothing at all wrong with that. 





The Virginia Earthquake: An Unexpected Visit from Mother Nature


Posted: 2011-08-24 06:01:15 UTC-07:00
So, yesterday I lived through my first earthquake experience and came through it unshaken, except, of course, the actual physical shaking. After working the graveyard shift last night, I was sound asleep in bed at home about 50 miles north of the epicenter when the quake struck around 2 PM Eastern Standard Time.  I woke up briefly puzzled that the house seemed to be swaying from side to side. I quickly decided I had emerged from some Inception style dream within a dream and rolled back over. It wasn’t until later that afternoon that I was informed by my dad that an earthquake had struck. That was an earthquake? That was real? Yes, that was an earthquake. That was real. By now, I’m sure you know that the strongest earthquake in recorded East Coast history took place yesterday, unless you are living under a rock. Then again, if you are actually living under a rock maybe you know about it better than anyone else. The magnitude 5.9 quake had tremors that were felt from Atlanta to Detroit. The damage in casualties and property appears to be so far slight.  There are a number of odd things about this earthquake, besides the fact that it was the first one to be ignored by me. First, is that the thought of such an event taking place here would have seen ridiculous only a day ago. While Californians live with the specter of the big one on the horizon day to day, we only think of them on the East Coast when they happen somewhere else. I distinctly remember smirking through a few earthquake drills while in school. When will I ever use this?This wasn’t just my own naïve perception. This was the biggest geological event to happen in the US east of the Rockies since at least 1897. The place where it occurred was in a region that the US Geological Survey deemed a low risk for potential earthquake damage. Furthermore, earthquakes usually happen near the boundaries of tectonic plates. This is because shallow earthquakes, like the one that shook up The Old Dominion, are caused by the release of stress that build up when two plates snag as they are moving past each other. However, the epicenter of our quake sits in the middle of the North American plate and far from any coast.I can’t help but compare “The Great Virginia Shake” to the devastating earthquake/ tsunami that rocked Japan earlier this year. You may say that this is just because it was the last significant earthquake of memory and that is why it jumps to mind. The facts say that they were two separate events that are in no way linked. Still, I see several odd parallels. The first connection is their unexpected arrival. While Japan as a whole has a long history of earthquakes, this one still took the people and scientists alike by surprise. Said Harold Tobin, a marine geophysicist at the University of Wisconsin-Madison,” This area has a long history of earthquakes, but [the Sendai earthquake] doesn’t fit the pattern.” (http://www.wired.com/wiredscience/2011/03/japan-earthquake-surpise/) The preparation for seismic events has mostly been concentrated on other areas of the country determined to be a higher risk based on historical and geological data. The March quake in Japan unleashed an amount of energy no one previously believed was possible from that area.  Both events were also shallow earthquakes. While most of the earthquakes in Japan are produced by the Philippine plate moving north toward the island nation, the Sendai quake was caused by the Pacific Plate slipping by two others at a junction causing faults to rupture. The Japan and Virginia earthquakes were not the result of one plate dramatically going over another, like the other variety of quakes that originate deeper in the ground, but from the unleashing of great energy built up by underground stress and tension. The third thing they have in common is their proximity to nuclear power plants. The epicenter of the Japan quake was about seventy five miles away from the two nuclear plants that were affected. Yesterday’s temblor was just seven miles away from the North Anna nuclear plant. In 2007, another shallow crustal earthquake struck just 15 miles away from the Kashiwazaki-Kariwa Nuclear Power Plant causing minor problems. The fact that earthquakes are popping up in places that contain our most dangerous and a volatile tool is very troubling to me. It seems almost symbolic to me that Mother Nature is appearing in dramatic fashion at places where she’s not expected and wreaking havoc on areas near where we house the technology that could most easily kill Her. Most people would tell me this is only a coincidence. I do not believe in coincidences. The word for ‘coincidence,’ as my master, Gordon has told me numerous times, when you break down the word just means two incidences happening together. There is nothing random or meaningless about this. Every encounter you have during the course of your day, even if it is just with an insect, is the product of thousands upon thousands of decisions and results that eventually led to the two of you being in the same spot at the same time despite the mind-numbingly low probability of such a chance meeting. It is only a coincidence if you can’t find the common root. But what could that common root be? I don’t know. Maybe in places where an unnatural amount of energy is being produced in an unnatural way, it is felt in the Earth’s sensitivity and this can cause it to release a pulse of energy to restore balance and drain off excess. Maybe these shallow quakes are happening in the places where we cause our planet the most discomfort and the quakes are the equivalent of Mother Nature trying to flick a mosquito off Her arm. Maybe the production of nuclear power causes rifts in dimensions we are unable to see or detect and the quakes are due to instability in the Earth’s core and magnetic field caused by such dimensional tampering. I don’t know what the connection might be, but I believe there is one, however small, subtle and seemingly insignificant it might be. Even if my ideas are paranoid, insane, conspiracy fantasies, there is a very real future danger in the event of a natural disaster crossing the path of a nuclear power plant. Nuclear energy is electricity that depends on electricity. What caused all the problems in Japan was not direct damage from the earthquake or tsunami, but the power failing. Without power, nuclear plants lose the cooling systems that remove the intense heat from the fission and decay. Take away the cooling and the reactor will melt down. With a meltdown you can expect radiation poisoning, birth defects, sky high cancer rates, and undrinkable water in the surrounding area. Imagine this happening in every nuclear plant in the country simultaneously. There are 138 of them in the USA.Does it seem like a good idea to rely on this type of power in the coming future? If we ever have any kind of lasting country-wide blackout, meltdowns across the country will be delayed only as long as the back-up diesel generators can keep their cooling system powered. Such a power loss seems unlikely, but a sufficiently large solar flare pointed directly at us could wipe out the infrastructure of our electric grid. Looking at the long-term, every country and king eventually falls by the wayside of history and we can’t expect electric service to continue indefinitely, forever. If (when) our civilization fails, the whole planet will be poisoned. If on the other hand, people had their own solar panels or wind turbines, independent power, they will be able to have electricity and continue on with their lives even if all the major cities go dark. But by continuing on with nuclear energy, and fossil fuels as well to a lesser point, when we go, not only will the lights be out forever, but the Earth will uninhabitable for all but the most basic forms of life for a long, long time.  The point is that we should not think of these earthquakes as coincidences, or accidents, or flukes. We should take them as a warning of Mother Nature’s awesomeness and a reminder of how precarious our lives, as well as our precious way of life, are. The world will continue to change. We can either change with it, or die. 





You Are What You See


Posted: 2011-08-16 02:56:49 UTC-07:00
Are you ever watching a TV show or movie and the screen goes dark and you catch a glimpse of your own reflection on the screen? This usually happens to me when I have been in front of my laptop way too long. I adjust the screen angle to try to get rid of the glare, and there I am; red-eyed and zombie-like staring right back into my own eyes. It is a strange feeling. I wonder about this Computer Sam. What from my PC has gone into me? What of me has gone into it (besides, of course, the drops of my essence undoubtedly absorbed over time through the cracks between the keyboard keys)? I was watching a Paul Mooney stand-up special the other night and he said, “You believe what you see.” This simple quotable expresses much more than just the apparent, obvious meaning. What we see the most, the sense data that we choose to let our brain receive, shapes how we view the world around us. We all have our own ideas, opinions, and prejudices. These are all based on prior experiences, real or simulated, concerning the thing we are encountering. The ego makes these mental formations so that we can use our past experiences to remember if we like or don’t like something. As people’s personal preferences range wildly, the way we see the world is through our own subjective perception. This may seem like a mundane matter, a simple fact of life that is a waste of time to discuss. However, there are important implications here. One story sticks out in my mind. As Christopher Columbus was making his final approach to the West Indies, it is said that the natives could not see the ships coming. They noticed odd ripples in the waves that weren’t there normally, but as hard as they stared out into the water, they could not spot the ships anchored in the harbor. A shaman from the tribe stayed out on the beach for days studying the abnormalities in the tide until he was convinced that something must be out there. He looked up and suddenly was able to see the boats. He rushed to his fellow villagers exclaiming, “Look, there are three big boats out there!”  And once he said that, there were the vessels in plain view for all to see. So, why could these people not see something so big and right in front of their eyes? One important job the brain and these mental constructs do is filter out unimportant information. We are constantly inundated with more sensory data than our systems can handle. Forgetting is as important as remembering. If we lost this ability to ignore or forget irrelevant information, we would be constantly bombarded by useless data that we could make no sense of. If the people have no concept of a ship, what a ship is, or what a ship does, then it’s not surprising that the Caribbean natives couldn’t see the ship. If our brains do not understand a thing and have no precedent for what it is or could be, then it will be filtered out of our perception with the rest of our meaningless surroundings. It is not until the holy man uses the power of observation to determine that there must be something out there that the mystery is unveiled. Once he understands not only are these somethings possible, but must be there, he can see them. Now that one can see them, he can put them in words that the people will understand and thus, the ships enter their understanding and field of vision as well. The ships, both the actual ships and the idea of a ship, had now entered into the reality of these people. Ideas are powerful things. As this story shows, our ideas and mental constructs literally define the reality we journey through. These ideas start as little seedlings. Like a seed, if it receives no water, sunlight, or attention, it will die. However, the idea is strengthened every time it is proven right. Any time an experience or another voice confirms its validity, we trust it a little more. On the other hand, if life disagrees with it or it is insufficient to describe a situation, we are less sure of it and the idea gets weaker.I’ll give one quick example to show what I mean by that. I have a friend, let’s call her Carol. Carol is nineteen years old and went to a private high school. She is a nice girl, but sheltered and unworldly to a degree. We were watching Mr. Ghetto’s classic video “Wal-Mart.” Go watch it now if you haven’t seen it http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PU9c0j4iOtw&playnext=1&list=PLD880C742FB153CC6 While she was watching this for the first time she remarked to me, “Wow, it’s like black people are a different species.”Yikes. Now keep in mind, the world of a Catholic school girl in Warrenton, VA is a little different from Mr. Ghetto’s world of picking up strippers shaking their shit in Wally Worlds of New Orleans. But, this is an idea that has been built up over time that lets her allow herself to believe that black people are fundamentally different from white people.  This is born out of her having very little contact with actual African-American people and a lot of second hand exposure to them from TV, music, the internet, etc. Artists want to be seen as extreme in some direction as to be noticed, and the media tends to play up differences between people over similarities, as well as reinforce the same old stereotypes. So, if you don’t have real world experience that tells you that black people are just like anyone else and suffer and struggle with the same problems that we all do, you can be led to believe, as Carol was to some extent, that they are not only different, but potentially dangerous.So as the old saying goes, you are what you eat, or in this case, you are what you see. If we are constantly feeding our brain the same TV programs over and over again, the ideas and messages of these programs will seep into our subconscious. Through numerous repetitions the same stereotypes are upheld, the same reactions characters have to situations are replayed, and the language used starts to become our own vocabulary. These constructs can become so influential that they become self-fulfilling prophecies and we can interpret any scenario to fit nicely into our preconceived notions. When our ideas have this much sway over us, they can become dangerous. In the movies “A Beautiful Mind” and “Pi,” the protagonists are brilliant mathematicians who go mad with the obsession to find a pattern in life. Once convinced a pattern is there, like our West Indian shaman, they see the pattern anywhere and everywhere and this only adds weight to the certainty that it must exist. The mind can become obsessed and maniacal in its pursuit of proving their ideas are reality. Also, if such an enthusiastic presenter comes forward with a new idea that seems to solve all our problems and it blends in agreeably to our current mental framework, we will all too willingly and hastily accept. Hitler’s deranged dominance over Germany shows the terrible potential of the desperate attachment to extreme views. This can also explain why some people claim to hear voices, have religious visions, encounter UFOs or extra-terrestrials, or see ghosts while other people think all of that is a load of hogwash. It is possible that either one’s strong belief allows them to perceive something that others cannot or that the idea of something becomes so powerful in one’s mind that it has to exist and these experiences are produced by the brain itself. For this discussion, it does not matter if the person is seeing into a bigger reality or creating their own, because in either case it is still very real to the mind. With all that said, all I want you to do is to think about what you feed your brain. Consider all input like food. Is this healthy or unhealthy? Whenever you watch a show, or see a movie, or hear a song, or read something, consider its meaning. What messages or lessons is it trying to get across? Why do I relate to this person more than that person? If you are particularly attracted or repulsed by something, try to figure out why it makes you feel that way. Asking yourself these questions gives you better control over your mind and enables you to connect with other human beings on a deeper level. If you don’t ask these questions you will forever be a slave to a limited, narrow, and biased view of the beautiful world all around us.  





Every Cloud Has a Silver... Yeah, Yeah, Shut the F&%k Up!: Sam's 2011 Redskins Preview


Posted: 2011-08-09 03:47:05 UTC-07:00
This is an odd season to be a fan of the Washington Redskins. No, it’s not because of the lockout that dragged on late into summer had fans around the country for months putting their fingers in their ears and singing, “La la la,” every time someone suggested that there might not be a season this year. And it’s not because the Redskins brought in a new big name coach or a slew of high profile players to change the proud franchise’s dismal fortunes. In fact, this season is so different for the opposite reason. Heading into the 2011 season, this Redskins team is almost completely devoid of hype and intrigue. This puts the typical Redskins fan like me in a strange position. Since Dan Snyder took over the team in 1999, at the beginning of every season we had a reason to believe that things might be different for us this year. They never did anything to fulfill these grand prospects, with the exception of a couple playoff births, but every year I still had a reason to hope. Now, I’m not saying they were always the most rational or justified reasons; often they were quite unrealistic, but there was always something to hope for. This is not the typical August in Washington. The annual tradition of unrealistic expectations and talks of a return to the Super Bowl has disappeared or at least been taken behind the closed doors by the most optimistic.To illustrate this phenomenon I will briefly show a few examples starting in 2000, Dan Snyder’s first full season in charge. 
- 2000: After going to the second round of the playoffs in 1999, the Redskins added two high first round draft picks (Chris Samuels and Lavar Arrington) and signed several free agents including Deion Sanders, Bruce Smith and Jeff George. Coach Norv Turner was fired after the team started 7-6 and they eventually finished out of the playoffs at 8-8.-2002: The big story was the signing of the Old Ball Coach, Steve Spurrier. After destroying the 49ers 38-7 in a preseason game played in Osaka, Japan, many ‘Skins fans were already checking the prices on January flights to San Diego. The team did not live up to its fast start, going 7-9.-2004: This was supposed to be the year the glory years returned. Our new savior was our old one. Coach Gibbs, St. Joe, the man who had already brought three Lombardi trophies to D.C. They also added Clinton Portis and Mark Brunell through trade, as well as signing high priced free agents like Marcus Washington, Cornelius Griffin and Shawn Springs. The team went just 6-10 and missed the playoffs yet again.-2006: The Redskins were anxious to add talent to a team that had just went back to the playoffs, adding players like Adam Archuleta, Antwan Randle-El, and Brandon Lloyd. These players and the team in general disappointed finishing 5-11.-2009: In the early hours of the morning while free agency was still in its infancy, Albert Haynesworth was given 100 million dollars to wear the burgundy and gold. Adding a dynamic play-maker to an already solid defense was supposed to take us to the next step, but the team went just 4-12.-2010: Last year, the Redskins added coach Mike Shanahan, general manager Bruce Allen and quarterback Donovan McNabb. Finally, we had a legitimate front office, coach and quarterback. Expectations were high again, but the team finished 6-10.
The general pattern is as follows: We get super excited about the team because of the moves they’ve made in the off-season. As the season progresses, our enthusiasm turns to frustration, then to melancholy, then to cynicism. We are left at the end of the season feeling cheated, crushed, and disillusioned. We call for changes. We call for Danny Boy’s head. We call for them to build through the draft and stop throwing money and draft picks at anyone available. Then, as the new season gets closer and closer, we are bombarded by the local TV and radio with the hype of why this year’s team is different and our allegiance is bought back by the haul of the most recent splurge. This is the unfortunate cycle of pain that is the experience of anyone who has been a Redskins fan for the last decade. So, why do we buy in? Why do we keep setting ourselves up to be let down again? I think there are two major reasons. The first is that we want them to be good so bad. We want to buy in to the hype. We need to believe that this season things will be different. The second is that Daniel Snyder is a very smart man. He knows all of this and is a very good salesman. In the past, he has made his money on just the image of the team because he knows he can sell us on the big names and the promise of excellence rather than delivering a solid, consistent, on-field product. Just imagine all the money made on the jersey sales of players like McNabb, Haynesworth, Lloyd, Archuleta, or Deion. Then imagine the same fans two years later when all those players were gone from the team. This August, the fans have replaced the bandwagon bonanza with the apathy that comes with rooting for a team that you know will lose more often than not. Another season in the cellar of the NFC East seems inevitable, and for another year will we be the laughing stock of all of our hated rivals. With this season lacking the usual sales pitch of great things to come, the question becomes have the Redskins actually changed the way they do business? Have Shanahan and Allen really kicked Snyder out of the decision-making room? If they have, there could be some positive in the dire outlook of this season and the strengthening Suck4Luck campaign. Perhaps, they are really abandoning the win now mantra of the past and are trying to build a team in the right way. There is some evidence this is true. In the draft, the Redskins did not trade up to draft a high profile quarterback, as they so often have mortgaged the future to make a such move. In fact, they traded back, multiple times, eventually ending up with twelve new draftees. And while being quiet in free agency, at least Redskins quiet, they have added several players that fill definite needs and many of them have their best football in front of them. This off season the ‘Skins did not add much flash or instant name recognition. What they did add to the team was depth, youth, and players who fit in to the scheme. Even if there is a change of direction in the cards down the line, the rampant pessimism about this year’s prospects is not without good reason. Our quarterback situation consists of two guys nobody else would touch competing to be the butt of jokes around the league and an obscure answer to a future trivia question. The skill positions are extremely lacking in game breakers. The offensive line was a joke last year. The defense, the one consistent strength of our team in recent years, finished near the bottom of the league statistically. And yet, there are reasons to believe that this year’s team can and will be better than last year’s.  The promise of an improved defense is the first one. Last season, the Redskins’ defense finished second to last in yardage allowed and 23rd in scoring. The D struggled to adjust to the 3-4 formation and many fans questioned why it was necessary to give up the 4-3 that seemed so much better suited for our personnel. This year they will probably have a brand new starting D-line in rookie Jarvis Jenkins and free agent signings Barry Cofield and Steven Bowen, who are both 27 years old and stolen from division rivals. Other notable acquisitions include first round pick Ryan Kerrigan, who should start opposite dynamo outside linebacker Brian Orakpo. Acquisition Josh Wilson is younger and should be an upgrade over departed notorious pick-dropper, Carlos Rodgers, and free safety O.J. Atogww should finally give us the umbrella over the top which allows Laron Landry to be aggressive in the box. The players that were on the defense last year should be better adjusted to their roles in the new defense and the pieces added should fit in to the role imagined for them nicely. Another promising sign for the Redskins is their cohesion. This is not a usual advantage for us as the Snyder era has mostly been a tumultuous whirlwind of coaching and quarterback changes. However, this post-lockout year has condensed the entire off-season to a handful of weeks, so the teams who hired new coaches or had dramatic player turnover will be behind from the beginning. On the other hand, teams with greater continuity from year to year, such as the Colts, Patriots, Steelers, etc. will have an even bigger head start on the rest of the league than usual. Although this is just Shanahan’s second year, most of the players already know the playbook and, with some of the best player organized workouts during the lockout, appear to be ahead of the league curve in preparation.The big question, for the NFL is general and for the Redskins specifically, is of, course, who is the quarterback?   Most experts and fans have already decided that neither Rex Grossman nor John Beck can ever be a successful NFL signal caller. Improving on the performance of McNabb last year is no tall order, but it remains to be seen if either of them can provide even a hint of adequacy. Rex has been in offensive coordinator Kyle Shanahan’s offense for a few seasons now and last year matched if not exceeded the play of Campbell Soup’s poster child in his few games. But I’m more excited about John Beck. I know what you’re thinking now. You’re thinking, “Sam, can you really be so naïve and deluded as to think that John Beck could become a franchise quarterback?” My answer is: Yes. Yes I am. Finding a top-flight quarterback is as rare as it is unpredictable. Joe Montana, Kurt Warner, and Tom Brady are at the top of a long list of qb’s that succeeded despite the odds being stacked against them, while innumerable first round picks have faded to oblivion. Do I really believe that John Beck will get to this level? Of course not. All I’m saying is that you can’t count out the possibility. Until we see him in a real game situation, you never know. Plus, he’s Mormon. I’d never bet against a Mormon. They believe some crazy stuff but they must focus all those inherent frustrations of Mormon life into athletics. Mormons number about 5 million in the US out of the approximately 300 million in total population. And yet, they have given us such athletes as Danny Ainge, Jimmer Ferdette, Steve Young (Brigham Young’s great-great-great grandson), Tommy Chambers, Stewart Bradley, Ty Detmer, Austin Collie… I could keep going. Analyzing this seemingly disproportionate explosion of Mormon athletes may warrant a later piece of its own.  My last point is that the NFL has by far the most parity year to year of any of the major sports leagues. There will always be surprises. The very best teams and the very worst teams will usually finish at about the same position, but there is opportunity each year for any given team to make the jump. Who was predicting this time last year that the Chiefs and the Buccaneers would both finish with winning records? No one was, and if you say you did, you’re a liar. It would only be fitting that in a season when us Redskins fans have no apparent hope for a successful season, that they surprise us. After losing 7 games last year by less than a touchdown, and beating the Super Bowl champions to boot, it would be fair to say that that result was a worst case scenario. The needle of perception of this team may have swung too far toward the doom and gloom, and, as crazy as it might seem, our expectations for this team may be too small this year rather than too big!Even if the assumptions that a best case scenario is a 8-8 season, and worst case we get Andrew Luck  are accurate and there is no improbable run in store this year, we do have a future to look forward to. The Redskins are finally running the team like a successful NFL franchise. They have become a much younger team. They have added players that provide veteran depth and fill a specific role. They have not traded future draft picks to go all in for the present. No matter how the next sixteen games go for the ‘Skins, they will still have a solid nucleus of young talent going into 2012. And that is something I can get hyped for. But then again, I’m just your typical, naïve, delusional, and utterly faithful, Redskins fan. GO SKINS!





Getting Noticed


Posted: 2011-08-04 08:41:06 UTC-07:00
So I’m driving down the road the other day on my way home from work and I see a few shapes in the distance. As I get closer, I realize that it is people walking on the road’s far shoulder. Seeing them, I slow down, let the car lazily drift a bit more to the outside despite the fact that they were walking in the other lane and already a safe distance away from me, and automatically extend my hand out the window and wave to them. They wave back and smile. I smile back and in a moment they disappear into my rear view mirror. I now accelerate and continue on my way.For reasons I couldn’t quite put my finger on, this seemingly normal, in fact, downright mundane, interaction lingered in my mind. My thoughts on the matter centered on one question. Why did I unconsciously, naturally wave at them? Out of all the strangers I had run across on that day, these were the only ones that I had waved at. Why did I feel it necessary to interact with these people and not all the others I had been around? It then occurred to me that I often wave to people when I am driving a car. However, it is rarely to other drivers. For me personally, I feel I am more inclined to wave when I meet a person who is traveling in an inferior way. In these experiences, I was far more likely to wave at walkers, joggers, bikers, or tractor-ers(?) than to people in an equal form of transportation. Also, I think I have been waved at more by other people while traveling in such a mode. It’s kind of crazy to think about how many other people cross our path in the course of a normal day. As you drive your car in traffic you are constantly, physically, extremely close to hundreds of others who whiz by you or you whiz by while sharing the same road. In all likelihood, this could be the only time you encounter these people in your respective lives , and yet you go by each other without a thought of who this other person is. With the technology we have today, the world moves much faster now than it has ever before. It’s hard to see so many people every day and think of them all as individuals with their own lives instead of just another part of the blur life speeding by at a million miles per hour. This theory of noticing those in unequal transportation is flawed and not universally applicable even for just my case. In the early paragraphs, I am referring just to country driving on the roads I drive most which are usually not very busy. Driving in a city is completely different. In a more populated area, there is no compulsion for me to wave at every pedestrian I pass by. With the sidewalks already set a distance from the road and a sea of people surging in every direction at once, these people are further removed and much more easily blend into the scenery, and thus escape notice.Let’s go back to the initial story for a second. These two walkers definitely stuck out to me for some reason. My brain did not allow them to be filtered out as unimportant parts of the world around me. The reason for this is that they were not unimportant. As they were traveling much slower than I was, I had plenty of time to see them, identify them, and then take action, since I would have to act differently with them in the road than I would without. They did not blaze by me without causing any concern as other cars do. I saw them and had to react to their presence. The key to this is that our brains notice what seems different about the world around them more than what seems similar to previous experience. I think this is odd because the brain tends to identify with things that it is already familiar with, so you would think that it would seek out the comparable over the foreign in order to strengthen its identity and tie with reality. However, it is the exotic in life that makes us stand up and take notice. Think about the strangers in your life that you notice during the course of your day. They are all remarkably different from the rest of their surroundings in some way. You acknowledge the existence of the really sexually attractive people and the morbidly obese. The same is true for the exceptionally and shabbily dressed, the man driving the Ferrari and the bag woman pushing a shopping cart, but those more in the middle fade into this blur around us.Our attention is immediately called into attention when we meet such a person that sticks to us in this manner. We recognize the unusual over the usual because the brain understands less about these phenomena. With something being different comes the possibility of it being dangerous or interesting to us. Our brain must make sense of this and carefully catalogue the experience, good or bad, for the next time. This leads to the compulsion to engage a stranger in some way when they are different enough to warrant our notice, no matter if is from meeting them walking down the road, or their having an excellent pair of tits. In any case, it makes us slow down from the frantic pace of our lives and confront the humanity of this alien to our reality. And so we wave and wait for a reaction so they can be judged and classified by the mind as friend or foe.This raises another question: why is the showing of a hand to another an almost universal greeting in our world? When we try to make sense these strangers invading our private space, we show them our hand and wave it back and forth and then eagerly wait for them to do the same in response. Our hands possess evolution’s greatest gifts to us. Our opposable thumbs are the primary difference between us and other animals (our cousins other primates excluded).  It’s almost like we are showing off our pliable fingers and thumb saying in essence, “Look at what I got? You know how much I can do with these things? Do you have them too?” and if the other person can prove they have also inherited these great gifts of nature, then they’re cool. It’s kind of like a secret signal or handshake all humanity shares.






The Washing of the Feet


Posted: 2011-07-25 02:33:13 UTC-07:00
So I was at work the other day and my feet were really hurting. The old phrase, “My dogs are barking,” might be cliché but there’s no better way to describe my state. We all know this feeling of being on our feet too long, the dull pain accompanying each step, the conscious effort required to lift the foot for the next.  It was in this condition, sweltering beside the pool on an oppressive Saturday afternoon at Poplar Springs, the water of my salvation so close yet unobtainable, counting the seconds until work was over, that I began to think about Jesus washing the feet of his disciples. Why I began thinking about this, I cannot quite say. I assume it was born of the combination of my feet hurting so, the beautiful taunting water right in front of me, and a little heat-inspired delirium as well. I thought of what a great guy Jesus was for washing the feet of his friends. To the people that called him their teacher, savior, and messiah, Jesus physically put himself below them, to ground level, and purified their feet of earth and grime. It would be like me taking me shoes off, dipping my legs in the water, and then a spa patron, most likely a just massaged and facial-ed and mani-ed and pedi-ed cougar swims over and starts giving me a foot massage!It’s important to remember that feet were the primary source of transportation in the times of Jesus. He and his vagabond troupe hoofed it around the Holy Land, walking through desert and forest terrain to reach their destinations. Simple sandals were their only footwear.  The smell of their dogs is only the beginning as we can be pretty certain that blisters, corns, bunions, bug and spider bites and maybe occasional scorpion stings were the norm. It was common then for a host to show hospitality to a newly arrived by having one of his servants wash their feet.  But this was not the servant washing the feet of the master but the exact opposite. Why would he do this? What was he trying to tell them and us? This simple act shows us the true root of the teaching of Jesus. He is teaching not just humility but that we must throw away all our labels and ideas about who we are if we want to approach his spirit. The definitions between master and student mean nothing now. The master has placed himself below the student in order to teach. All past labels were similarly cast off by the disciples of Jesus, whether they be sinner, prophet, tax collector, thief, or whore, when they joined his circle. Jesus embraces what most would avoid by nearly any means. He equates himself with the lowest of the low. It shows the intimacy he has with his followers, and the intimacy he has with the world around him. He encounters the sand, dirt and blood on these feet directly. He cleans their feet without hesitation or any sign of unwillingness. He places himself in supplication in front of his disciplines, completely vulnerable and at their mercy. His selfless love and kindness make the disciples ashamed and embarrassed. They are not ready for the intensity of his love. Touching another person’s feet is a very intimate act. However, intimate doesn’t necessarily mean sexual. It reminds me of the scene in Pulp Fiction where Vince and Jules are discussing the fate of an unfortunate man whose crime was giving  a foot massage to the boss’s wife. Jules thinks it was an overreaction while Vince understands the reaction. Jules insists that there’s nothing sexual about a foot massage and that he gives his mother foot massages. Vince responds by asking if he would give a man a foot massage. The argument is over. The acts of washing the feet or giving a foot massage are a deep expression of love. It can be love for a lover, or a friend, or for family. It doesn’t matter where the love comes from, the love must be there to be able to humble yourself before another in such a manner. The prospect of doing this to a man leaves Jules as befuddled as the disciples nervously watching Jesus, awaiting their turn for their living god to bow to them. The act is inconceivable. Although he has already pronounced himself “the foot fuckin’ master,” the character Jules knows giving a foot massage to a man would be impossible. To give a man a foot massage would damage his reputation and lead others in his circle to question his sexuality. In his world, weakness is exploited and any vulnerability, real or even imagined, could lead to his death.It’s easy and pleasant to share in this intimacy to someone we love.   Something as simple as a foot massage is a selfless gesture with the sole intent being to give the other person some small degree of comfort. But Jesus shows us that we should not just do this to our loved ones, but to everybody! We must feel this love and intimacy with not just all other people but with the dirt we clean from between their toes! His love is not directed just toward his disciples, in fact, it is not directed at all. It is universal love radiating in every direction from his body. Another story from the Gospels further shows the importance of this lesson. Mary, possibly Mary Magdalene, nonetheless identified as a sinner, perhaps a prostitute, washes the feet of Jesus with her tears, dries them with her hair, and even goes as far as to kiss the savior’s little piggies. His host had not washed his feet, had not even set a bowl of water out for Jesus, but this tainted woman accomplishes the task without needing anything external from her body. The friends of Jesus are shocked that he would let such a woman touch him in such a way, but the woman is forgiven of her sins completely by Jesus instead for her deed. Why does Jesus favor this woman so? It is because she is able to come before Jesus naked of all pretence or apprehension. She acts only out of pure love, so absorbed in the task that she forgets her own body using her own tears, lips and hair to clean the feet of Jesus. The disciples are still stuck in their world of convention. They are not ready to bear their souls in front of Jesus and throw away any concern of what other people think of them. They cannot be purified through the act of purification as she can. Jesus is showing us that we all walk on this common ground. More than that, we are essentially no different from the dirt that makes up this ground. By becoming the lowliest of lowly and telling us to follow his example when he is gone, he is pointing to this truth. We should all drop everything we know about ourselves and kneel at the feet of others with the pure intent to help and serve. Jesus taught us to treat strangers as we would treat our mother, our wife or husband, or even he himself. Until we do this, salvation will always be out of reach. 





Yao Ming: Larger than Life


Posted: 2011-07-20 05:14:58 UTC-07:00
Sometime between our Tuesday night and Wednesday morning, half a world away, Yao Ming announced his retirement from the NBA. Since word came out that he would be hanging up his size EIGHTTEEN Nikes many people have been rushing  to ask questions like, “How good was he really?” or “How good could he have been if not for injuries?” I, on the other hand, would rather think about what the career of one of my favorite player’s was rather than what it was not.  It’s impossible to think about Yao Ming without thinking of China. No other athlete has been tied so closely to his national identity than him in the past decade. Fans on both sides of the Pacific equated Yao almost directly with his country of birth. Americans did so because we knew nothing about him except that he was tall and Chinese.  The Chinese did the same because he was carrying the weight of the billion people on his ample shoulders and when we won, they all won. To us and to them, Yao Ming was China and China was Yao Ming. But what exactly is this China he represented? When Yao came to America in 2003, The Middle Kingdom was a much bigger mystery to the West than it is now. It was seen as (and still is to a lesser effect) a place of rice and fortune cookies, kung fu and ping pong, communism and Tiananmen Square.  They didn’t interact much with the rest of the world and didn’t seem eager too. The truth is that by this point, China had been changing for a long time but not too many had cared to notice yet. Yao would change this.This change that led to Yao’s emergence into the global spotlight and China’s emergence into an economic superpower suitably began with sport. In 1971, the US ping pong team accepted an invitation to visit China (yes, it really happened, not just in ‘Forest Gump’), the first Americans to visit the capital since Mao’s regime took over. This opened the door to President Nixon’s visit with the Chairman and subsequently to his successor Deng Xiaoping opening China economically to the West in the 1980s. Once this had been done, China’s isolationist stance became a thing of the past. As money and products from the West were imported, our culture began to gradually be imported as well. Basketball was not one of these recent cultural imports. The sport had been played in China since YMCA missionaries introduced the sport in the late 19th century. It was not banned, as many other Western sports were, by the communist regime and it actually flourished under this time. Mao himself was a fan of the game and regularly attended games, a cigarette between his fingers a constant accessory as the norm for him. But the sport had to take on the spirit of the party so no individual statistics were recorded and players routinely apologized to their opponents after committing a foul. The ubiquitous motto, “friendship first, competition second,” was the mantra of all sports in Maoist China, hoops included. The team first attitude, in sports as well as in life, must come before the individual.Yao played a part in this perception of sport changing. When he was a rookie on the Rockets, millions of Chinese tuned in to the games. Were they watching for the team? Of course not, they were watching for Yao. No doubt they rooted for Houston by association, and they are now the most popular NBA team in China, but the initial attraction to the individual no doubt came first. Now, rooting for Yao was pretty much equivalent to rooting for the bigger Team China, but as the fan started pouring over box scores and voting over and over again online for their hero to make the All-Star team, a focus on the players began to eclipse the focus on team. Considering this, it is not surprising that the only American player who rivals Yao’s popularity in China now is Kobe Bryant, who is not the most selfless guy in the world.Added to this, Yao is quite the individual himself. On the one side, he has shown devoted loyalty to his country. He professed the country before self doctrine of old communist China. He once said that if he missed the 2008 Olympics due to injury it “would be the biggest loss in my career.” On the other hand, he was a child of this new capitalist wave that hit the Far East as well. After growing up watching his basketball playing parents make an average worker’s wages, taking care of the Yao’s became an important priority of Yao. When Coca Cola, the beverage sponsor of Team China but not of Yao, used his image without permission, Yao sued the company and won. Even though his love for his country cannot be questioned, he refused to be pushed around or taken advantage of. Through his small acts of independence, he has set a good precedent for future Chinese athletes and set up his own personal Ming Dynasty for generations. Yao was (and still is) a bridge from that old China to this new one. He gave his country a presence on a stage the whole world would pay attention to. They had to this point lacked a universally recognized face with which people could identify China with. And Yao was certainly someone who could not be hidden or ignored. His mere size makes heads turn in probably every room he has ever entered in his entire life. People would have to take notice of Yao Ming, and thus, China too.  It was with all this pressure on him that Yao Ming entered his rookie season. Many experts predicted confidently that he would be a bust, and his early results seemed to prove them right. After missing most of training camp to be with the Chinese National Team, Yao did not score in his debut and appeared lost, confused, slow, clumsy and timid in the early part of the season. He gradually started to gain confidence and adjust to the speed of the game and better performance followed. Yao’s coming out party to the basketball world was without a doubt his first match-up with the dominant center of the time, Shaquille O’Neal. With Shaq fanning the flames before the game with his borderline racist comments and (hilarious) kung fu flick dubbed voice, everyone expected Yao to be blown away like a tent in a hurricane. Yao instead responded by blocking Shaq’s shot the first three times he came at him and scoring three quick buckets in the early moments of the game in front of a national television audience as well as millions of his faithful watching at home.Although he was bullied by Shaq quite a bit in the game, his dunk to seal the game tells the whole story. Yao came thundering down the middle of the court, trailing the break, filling the lane, caught the ball right in front of the hoop, and slammed it home to put the Rockets up four with ten seconds to go. On his face was the insane intensity and killer instinct that everyone had assumed he lacked. He was not the stereotypical Asian wallflower, all humility and Confucian sayings, that he was expected to be. He was a force to be reckoned with.  He was not going to shrink away from Shaq or anybody. This game was hailed as the passing of the torch from today’s great center to tomorrow’s and the first of many great battles between the two behemoths we all anticipated.Unfortunately, his career did not quite work out that way. Over the next few years, Yao quickly established himself as an All-Star, borderline elite caliber of player. He was dependable, playing at least eighty games in three out of his first four years, and efficient, shooting over 50% from the field and over 80% from the free throw line for his career. But injuries would ravage the prospects of his so promising potential. What was worse than the injuries themselves was the astoundingly unlucky timing of these injuries.  His first extended absence from the court came after breaking his knee in his fifth season. At the time of his injury, he was considered an MVP candidate with impressive averages of 27 points, 10 boards, and over 2 blocks a game. His next season was ended by a stress fracture in his left foot as his team was in the midst of a 22 game winning streak, the second longest in NBA history. A hairline fracture in the same cursed foot ended his next season during Game 3 of a second round playoff series against the Lakers. If any of these injuries had been avoided, Yao’s legacy may have indeed included a title and/ or an MVP trophy. Yao was healthy enough though to participate in the biggest moment of China’s recent history; the 2008 Beijing Olympics. Carrying his country’s flag, Yao, new China’s first ambassador to the West, led the Chinese delegation into the opening ceremony as the whole world looked in awe upon The Bird Nest, The Water Cube, and the 7’6 master of ceremonies. Here was the China Yao forced the rest of the planet to notice fully manifested. The proportions were gigantic. The execution was precise. The presentation was downright extravagant. With the strange modernistic buildings, the hundreds of in synch drummers and dancers, and the continuous fireworks booming above, China was announcing that it was not a dormant, sleeping dragon. With the world’s largest population and the second largest economy, China was finally ready to completely depart with its isolationist past and embrace its new role as one of the most powerful nations on Earth. The display at the Olympics clearly showed an intention to make this known. This desire to be the biggest and the best in everything is still going on in China. I was not there to see the Olympics in Beijing, but I was living in Guangzhou during last year’s Asian Games. Here again were brand new facilities built to house the games, neon lights illuminating the riverfront twenty-four hours a day, and endless fireworks through the night with seemingly all of the twenty million residents of GZ in the streets to watch them. All over the country, some of the world’s tallest TV towers and skyscrapers are going up. Hell, China is even launching ships into space while America is about to retire our only extra-planetary vehicle. It almost smacks of a desperation to be noticed, like a middle child or parvenu over-compensating to get people to notice them. The government continues wasting money in such an extravagant way when much of the rest of the world is in recession, just because they can. And they do put on one hell of a show.A good way to sum it up is this: The Backstreet Boys are still really popular in China. Their song, “Larger than Life,” is especially so. If you walk into any club in China, there’s a good chance you might here it playing and see people going crazy dancing to it, like I expect people did in 1999, when it came out. And this is not due to any lag on music reaching China. Many other artists such as Lady Gaga and Jay-Z are also well known and very popular. However, it seems that this dated pop song most of us wish we could forget holds a special place in the hearts of the new generation of Chinese.The song itself (or its title anyway, which is all the lyrics these Chinese club goers usually know) mirrors this reckless expansion, this need to be biggest and best, and the need to demonstrate it publically. Yao Ming was the first example of China being larger than life to the outside world. His size all too obviously stood out even in the NBA. The finesse and skill with which he played the game was astonishing for such a giant. The ease, willingness and ability to be a global icon and universal figurehead for his country seemed effortless. He’s just a little too much to be real.In his all too brief time with us here in Mei Guo (美国), the beautiful country, the name for America in Chinese, Yao Ming earned the respect of the basketball world, the adoration of millions of fans of all colors, and the constant devotion of his countrymen. He opened new doors for the NBA and the game of basketball, while carrying the expectations of a nation on his back. He was the harbinger of a new China that the most of the world was not aware existed yet. He was (and is, I hate talking about the guy like he’s dead) larger than life. 





Sam Vs. Reverend Shakes, or My Problems with Christianity


Posted: 2011-07-14 01:54:38 UTC-07:00

For those of you who don’t frequent Old Town Warrenton, Reverend Shakes is an elderly gentleman who preaches the Good News in front of Molly’s Irish Pub most Friday and Saturday nights. This is obviously not his real name; I’ve never even heard anyone use his real name. The title ‘Reverend’ refers to his constant preaching while ‘Shakes’ comes from his most distinguishable feature: his hands. He often holds them up in front of his frail body, constantly shaking involuntarily, as he speaks to unlucky bar patrons or pedestrians on Main Street. I say unlucky because his sermon is not very uplifting. He usually starts by approaching people in his slow, deliberate walk and asking them something along the lines of if they have accepted Jesus as their personal savior. If he is not satisfied by the answer, which I have never seen him satisfied by anyone, then he launches into fire and brimstone in his stuttering, hint of a Southern drawl voice, promising a trip to hell for being guilty of such sins as drinking, smoking, hanging out in a bar or even wearing pants if you happen to be female.I have had many encounters with the Reverend over the years. Usually I try to avoid him. He is impossible to talk to because he is convinced that everything he believes is right and if you don’t believe the exact same things as him, then you whatever you say will invariably be wrong and he will invariably judge you to be such a sinner. So, one night I was bouncing at the bar and I really wanted to sit outside. The problem was he was lurking just outside the door in his usual spot, ready to pounce (ok, I admit his pouncing ability is probably pretty limited due to his decrepit state) on anyone coming in the bar or going out to smoke a sinfully sweet cigarette. But it was hot inside the bar and not too busy and the air outside had a slight breeze so I decided to take my chances that he would trap some other sap into conversation. There was no one else outside so as soon as I set up my chair just outside the door and opened my book he was already there. I looked up to see him standing over me, his feeble body like a wire hanger inside of his clothes, hunched over staring down at me. One hand clutched a Bible in the crook of his arm while the other was in front of him shaking as if he was trying to convey something to me in his geriatric sign language. I greeted him and looked straight into his dark eyes. His face looked ghost-like in the dim light of the street. He had a black cap on this night and shadows reflected down across the wrinkles and loose bags of flesh hanging from his cheekbones that made up his facial features. Usually I would have smoked a quick cigarette and then retreated back inside pleading some excuse. That night, though, I decided not to run. Why should this old man make me feel uncomfortable? What is there to fear? After considering these questions, standing my ground seemed like the only option. What follows is the dialogue between us that night as best as I remember it. In parentheses are my notes and not part of the conversation. 
RS: I’m so glad you cut your hair. (As he knows me and knows already that I am a sinner, he skips his usual opener and likes to drag up painful memories of the magnificent but sinful mane of hair I used to have) S:  Yes, I know you are.RS: You know a woman’s long hair is her glory. It’s shameful for a man to wear his hair long.S:  Why is that?RS: Because God bestowed long hair on women as a gift and so a man who grows his hair long defies God.S: But anyone who doesn’t cut their hair will grow long hair. And didn’t Jesus have long hair?RS: Well, all they usually show Him like that, but I’m not sure if that’s true.S: So, if He did have long hair, would that be a sin?RS: You shouldn’t talk about Jesus like that! He couldn’t sin. God sent us His only son born without sin to pay for all our sins so we could get into heaven. Only through being born again in the Church can you be saved. S: What does ‘being born again’ mean?RS: It’s your rebirth in the eyes of God which frees you from the original sin all people are born with.S: Like a baptism right? I was baptized.RS: Well, they’re not really the same thing. S: Jesus was baptized right? By John the Baptist in the river?RS: Yes.S: So if baptism is a rebirth without original sin why would Jesus do it if he didn’t have to?RS: He did it to give us an example of how to follow him.S: So Jesus wasn’t born with sin but did he have the ability to sin?RS: Jesus couldn’t sin. He’s the Son of God.S: What about that one story about when boy Jesus got separated from his family and Mary found him three days later in the temple? RS: Yes?S: Well, what’s the fifth commandment? “Honor thy mother and thy father,” right? Didn’t He dishonor them by disappearing and letting them worry?RS: No, He wasn’t disrespecting his parents. Remember when they find Him he says, “Didn’t you know I had to be in my Father’s house?” He was not born like you and me. He was doing the opposite of what you say, he was honoring his father. S: Ok, but he was still dishonoring Mary right? If I did the same thing to my mother I would be sinning and breaking a commandment, but when Jesus does it its ok?RS: Jesus was not born of the union between man and woman. The Holy Spirit descended on Mary and she conceived. S: Yeah, but He still had to be born of Mary. The way you describe it is like Jesus was not really a man like us. I thought the whole idea was that He came down to become one of us so that He could save us. RS: He did become man, but He had to be a perfect sacrifice to absolve all our sins. He had no sins so He could take up all of ours and make it possible for us to get into Heaven. He redeemed us all from the Original Sin that we all carry. S: From Adam and Eve eating the apple, right?RS: They ate from the tree that God forbid them to eat from. They had everything they could have ever wanted in the garden and could have lived forever there but they ate the fruit from that tree.S: But God knew that they would do it right?RS: What?S: Well, if God is omniscient…RS: Omnis..?S: If God is all-knowing then he would know that Adam and Eve would eat the apple. RS: He might have known, but He gave us free will to see if we would choose to follow Him.S: That’s fine but if He knew what would happen, he is still setting them up to fail. So He puts the forbidden fruit in front of them, knowing that they would eat it, and knowing that He would one day have to send His son to redeem us, right? He knew that they had to fail. God is behind it the whole time.RS:  But that doesn’t matter. All that matters is that Adam and Eve defied God and humans were kicked out of the Garden where we could have lived forever with everything provided for us. S: So no one would have ever died in the Garden of Eden?RS: No, we would have walked with God forever there.S: So how would they fit all those people in?RS: (smiling, chuckling, he does this a lot when he doesn’t know what to say. Feel free to insert this anywhere else) What do you mean?S: Well, think about every living person and every person who ever lived all living together in the garden. Most people think the Earth is overcrowded as is. Can you imagine if no one ever died? To me, it seems like you can’t have life without death.RS: There is only death in the world because of that first sin.S: Is that for animals too or just humans?RS: There was no death in the world until God expelled Adam and Eve from the garden.S: So how would anything new grow if nothing died? In nature everything is recycled and used again.RS: I don’t understand your question. Everything would have been given to us. God loves us and wants us to be happy.S: The God I believe in is all-loving and loves all his creations equally. Do you believe that?RS: Of course God loves us all. That’s why he sent Jesus to us to die on the cross.S: So how could God ever send us to Hell to be tortured forever if He loves us?RS: God is loving, but He is also just. He gave his son to us as a sacrifice to give us a way to salvation. If we ignore this and do not follow this way, then we deserve damnation. Only through Jesus can we escape this.S: But what about all the people who could never hear the stories of Jesus? Billions have been born in the world long before Jesus was born or in places where they would never hear his story. All these people go to Hell?RS: Only through Jesus can we be saved. S: So an all-loving, just God punishes people for being born in the wrong time or the wrong place? That doesn’t sound fair or loving.RS: God sent His only son to Earth to redeem mankind. He gave us a way to be with Him. We ruined our first chance to be with God, so He ishowed how much He loves us by giving us another chance. S: I’m sorry, but I can’t believe in a God who would send people to Hell for no fault of their own. RS: You need to change your life and you’ll be going to Hell, too.S: I’ll take my chances.RS: You need to give up your sinful ways. Have you been lazy? (This taking place after working all day then coming to the bar to work until 2) Have you been adulterous? (You need to be in a relationship to commit that right?) Have you been fornicating before marriage? (Unfortunately, it’s been awhile since I’ve committed that sin too) S: No, I haven’t. I think I’m a good person and I try to help other people and I think that’s all God really cares about. RS: Only through Jesus can you be saved. (Yes, he gets repetitive after awhile)S: I believe there are all kinds of people and therefore all kinds of ways to know God.RS: All those other ways are false. You are following demons. There is only one way to know God.S: And that is your way? Didn’t Jesus say, “Judge not less ye be judged?” (Yeah, you know I had to drop that sooner or later) You judge everyone you talk to out here to be a sinner. RS: But I’m not judging them. I am just telling them the Word of God. If they are going against what scripture says, then I am not judging them, God is. The Bible is the gift God gave us straight from His own mouth.S: Yes, but you accuse people of sins they don’t talk about in the Bible like drinking and smoking. Jesus drank wine in the Bible but you tell people out here that they are being sinful by doing it.RS: Jesus didn’t really drink wine. That’s just a symbol of His blood and how we need to be reborn in Him.S: But the Bible says He drank wine. Doesn’t that mean it must be the truth then?RS: But the Bible also says that our body must be a fit temple for the Holy Spirit. If we mistreat it then we are going against God.S: But drinking and smoking aren’t the only ways people abuse their bodies. What about people that eat bad food or eat too much? Are fat people all sinners too? What about poor people who can’t eat enough. Are they going against God’s will?RS: Some things hurt our bodies more than others and doing them is a sin. S: I believe in balance. The things themselves aren’t bad or evil, just the way people use them. RS: Well, I don’t think that’s true. If you are ever confused, you just need to read the Word. That will answer all your questions. S: I think the Bible is a great book. (Haha, I love dropping that one) Jesus’ words are enough for me. It doesn’t matter to me if He was really the Son of God or not. Just His message is enough.RS: But His words mean nothing if you don’t understand the story. God sent us His only son. He was beaten and crucified to absolve us of our sins. If you don’t accept this then you will go to Hell no matter what you do.S: I disagree. What did He tell us? Do unto others as you would have them do unto you. The meek shall inherit the Earth. Be pure of heart. Be a peacemaker. If it doesn’t matter what we do as long as we believe in Him, why did He tell us these things. I believe following the words of Jesus is more important than following His Church.RS: If you follow the words of Jesus without accepting Him as the Son of God, you will still go to Hell.S: I don’t think so.RS: It doesn’t matter what you think, you must make a decision to be with God or against God.S: Well, we will just have to disagree about that. The God I believe in wouldn’t treat His creations like that.RS: There is only one God and Jesus is His son. S: Do you think there’s life on other planets in space?RS: What?S: Well, there’s billions of billions of stars and they’re finding more and more planets every day. Did God create them just to be pretty for us to look at or did He create life in these places too?RS: I don’t know about that.S: There could have been billions of pairs of Adams and Eves. Do you think Jesus had to come back in all these different alien forms to save all those people too? Could there be planets where they didn’t eat the fruit and are still perfect paradises floating out there?RS: Could be. I don’t know anything about that.S: Reverend, I know you are trying to help people and are doing what you think is right. That is very good and I respect that, but you will never change my mind and I will never change yours.RS: It’s still nice to talk to you. I hope you find Jesus soon.S: Yeah, it was nice to talk to you too. I’m going to get back to my book now. Goodnight. 






Good Deeds


Posted: 2011-07-07 05:57:24 UTC-07:00

A funny thing happened to me the other day. I was standing in line at a convenience store, clutching a couple deuce deuce bottles in my hands, third in line from the register. At the cashier at this moment was a girl about twelve years old accompanied by a couple younger children, presumably her siblings, buying some bottles of water and soda. Alas, she was forty-eight cents short of the total of her purchase and went out to the car to look for change. The clerk set aside her items and began to help the next customer. It was my turn in line when the girl came back into the store. She told the cashier that she would have to put back a bottle of coke. The guy behind me in line said something along the lines of, “I’ve got it,” but reaching into my pocket I found two shiny quarters, which I gave to the man behind the counter and nodded towards her. The girl was looking back and forth in confusion, unsure what to do next when the cashier told her, “You’re all good.” She immediately turned to leave.I’m still standing at the counter finishing my transaction as she’s walking out the door. Feeling a bit peeved that she left without saying anything I shout after her, “You’re welcome young lady!” The poor girl turns back looking more bewildered than ever. “What?” She stammers. “You’re welcome,” I say again. “That was my fifty cent that paid for your drinks. It’s nice to say ‘thank you.’”  “Thanks,” she managed blushed and embarrassed and got out of the store as quickly as possible.The part that bothered me about this whole seemingly insignificant exchange was the fact that I was so annoyed that my good deed had gone unnoticed. Is the only reason we help people is so that people will see us helping people? Are completely selfless acts just as motivated by our selfish, egoistic craving for attention? Is the action itself all that matters and does it matter at all how we feel about it because it was done for another’s benefit?These questions at surface seem silly. A good turn deserves a pat on the back right? Even God rewards our good deeds with a trip to heaven or punishes our lack thereof with eternal torture. But these are important issues to me.  I have always believed that good deeds should come spontaneously and without any thought of the self. The intention is as important as the action itself and the two should be indistinguishable. A selfless act committed with an eye toward how it can help you in the future is not selfless at all. I have always been repulsed by this notion of God keeping track of our good deeds and sins on His great cosmic scoreboard, as if the sheer math of good things done versus bad can describe who a person was in life. If a wealthy person gives away a lot of money it can help a lot of people. However, if they give it away for tax purposes, or for publicity, or for assuaging their own guilt about something horrible they’ve done, then is the same as if they had given it away just out of pure love for humanity?It makes me think about a story of Jesus in the Gospels. I’m no Biblical scholar so I’m paraphrasing but it went along the lines of this: Jesus is preaching in the temple and there are two people who want to give alms to the poor. One is rich and makes a large donation which he can still easily afford. Another is very poor and gives a pittance that is still most likely taking bread out of his own mouth. Jesus praises the second’s as the superior act despite the fact that the rich man’s money has much more practical use in helping people. Why? It is because the act of giving for the two is fundamentally different. The rich man is giving out of vanity, out of seeking recognition, out of the wish to be seen as a rich man. When Jesus spoke of how difficult it is for a rich man to get into the Kingdom of God he is alluding to this. There is always an ulterior motivation for him. The poor man has nothing to gain from giving to the church. Certainly no one expects it from him, and it is such a small amount of money that no one would ever think twice about it. His act of giving is born out of love, selflessness, and real sacrifice. This is a true good deed.So back to my encounter at the 711. I started out well enough. When I saw this girl needed fifty cents, I gave it to her freely without a second thought, without a word, without chance for refusal. Just gave. It was a natural reaction and there was no thought of what I would get out of it. Then as she was leaving, I heard my brain start to go, “She didn’t say thank you. She didn’t say thank you. She didn’t say thank you…” This was the ego seeking recognition for what I did. This was my brain telling me, “I was cheated. My good deed has gone unnoticed. Why isn’t anyone acknowledging what a great guy I am?…” on and on.  We all have these thoughts. They are perfectly natural. But they can also be dangerous. If you constantly placate the ego and give it what it wants, it will only want more the next time. This is how people become dependent, like as to a drug, on praise, love, satisfaction, and pleasure. But how can this be a bad thing, you may ask? We all seek after love, and acceptance, and admiration. I am not arguing that these things are bad, but just pointing out that if we need these things constantly in our life in order to be happy, then we will end up living most of our lives unhappy. Yes, even a simple thank you can be a drug if it creates dependence in us.I don’t have an answer to these problems but I think being aware of them helps. Analyzing things that seem funny to you, even a very minor incident such as this, can teach you things about yourself and how your mind is working. What I learned that day was this:If I do something for someone else just for what I might be getting out of it (satisfaction, reputation, eternal bliss) then I’m not really doing it for them.






Worms or The World Reborn


Posted: 2011-04-28 13:25:13 UTC-07:00
I went out to my jumping hole this morning after neglecting it the past few days,The morning unseasonably warm, bathed in sunlight and the promise of spring’s arrival,The first few bunches of white flowers hung above the vivid green world like a crown,All nature celebrating the coronation of the reborn virgin queen.
I looked down into my hole to see a legion of earthworms squirming at the bottom.
“That’s a shit ton of worms,” I said. “The most I’ve ever seen in one place,” Dave agreed.“I’ll get the shovel,” was my first instinct.
I raised my spade and looked down upon them, swarming in the mud and shallow puddles of rainwater, products of characteristic April showers which had dominated the past week.I hesitated.I did not want to kill them. They seemed so happy in their slime, wriggling around and on each other, like it was some slamming subterranean night spot.I meditated upon what I was about to do aloud, my implement of destruction still poised and ready to strike:“I do not wish to do this little worm friends,“I will try to dig around and under you, but I regretfully recognize the fact that many of you will be decapitated by my shovel’s blade.“I wish you all safe travels in your journey through death and hope you find yourself at a higher station in your next life,“Unless you enjoy your life as a worm, wriggling happily in what others despise and disdain,“If that is the case let you return as a worm again and again throughout the eons.”
Then Dave said, “If you don’t want to kill them, then don’t.”
Of course.Jumping on them or digging them out with a shovel weren’t the only options here. “So how can I get them out and alive and do my jumping?” I posed to myself.After some reflection, digging them out with my bare hands seemed to be the easiest way, but the initial thought of actually doing this revolted me.But then I thought to myself, “What’s more tragic: getting my hands a little dirty or destroying life when there is no need to?”I threw down my shovel and got on my hands and knees. 
I reached into the saturated earth and began clawing clumps of dirt and worms, forming them gently into a semi-solid shape, and then tossing them into the safety of the shade and musk at the forest’s edge, I felt the living, moving earth in my hands, the fecundity, the entire creative faculty of Mother Nature in my grasp,Under the ground, where it all starts,Here, life’s most basic roots were flourishing, Its effects had already started to manifest all around me.The true blooming still lies ahead yet.I thought all this prostrate on the ground, gathering earthworms in my hands, performing my own sacred ritual to honor the rebirth of Mother Goddess, until none were left in my jumping hole,I rose and rubbed my muddy hands together, feeling grit and the whole of Gaea on my fingertips.
Spring has come, and the Earth, She is reborn.






3/5 Dedication


Posted: 2011-03-06 01:35:48 UTC-08:00
 The heights by great men reached and kept, were not obtained by sudden flight. But they, while their companions slept, were toiling upward in the night.
-- Henry Wadsworth Longfellow
Often the media shows us images of people at their crowning achievement, but there is less of an emphasis on how they got there. We see the athletes being celebrated for winning gold in the Olympics, but they soon fade into their lives of anonymity and constant training for another four years. We see a famous comedian in a movie or on TV, but we never think of them getting heckled or booed off stage, as they all did at some point in their career. We see the stock footage of the astronauts hopping around on the moon without a thought of the thousands of hours they spent getting ready for their trip. My point is that greatness is not the moment of victory, but an everyday commitment. It is an attitude; a way of life. Whatever your pursuit in life is, if you want to be the best, you have to practice. It seems simple bordering on stupid to say it like that, but it is absolutely true. If you want to get better at something, you have to do it all the time! It is only by doing this that our heroes have reached such dizzying heights.This attitude of greatness should be taken into our everyday lives, even if we don’t aspire to be rock stars, NFL players, or best-selling writers. I had the idea of a dedication project. The idea is to choose something simple that you want to get better at, or something that you have always wanted to do but never took any real action toward it. Once you have your target, find easy to do things everyday that will get you closer to reaching it. If you do this you will be astounded by what you can eventually accomplish.I have seen the power that such dedication can have. Two years ago, I started an Iron Palm training program under the guidance of my friend and kung fu shifu Gordon Wicks. The idea was to make your hands a little stronger and harder everyday through hitting a sack filled with steel ball bearings. I made a hundred day commitment to this and defeating my laziness and lack of initiative was a daily battle, but by the end of the program, my hands were going through concrete block like it was hot butter. After completing this regimen, all my other goals seemed infinitely more reachable.I am about a week into my new dedication project. It has been a dream of mine all my life to dunk a basketball…. waiting for you to stop laughing……ok. So anyway, I’ve decided to take action. I’m going about reaching this goal in a very simple way: every day I jump out of a hole. I once saw a jump training regimen in a kung fu book that involved digging a hole and jumping in and out of it repeatedly with and without ankle weights. After a few days, make the whole a few inches deeper. Progress is slow, but I went to play ball Wednesday and I already felt a bit more explosive. I even swatted the shit out of some kid’s shot. In China, I did that a lot. Here, not so much. So, I’m going to keep doing it until I’m throwing down like Chocolate Thunder (I’ve always most closely identified with Daryl Dawkins dunking style). What will be your dedication project? 





2/16 Darkness


Posted: 2011-02-16 01:11:48 UTC-08:00
I finished a book last night by Haruki Murakami called After Dark. The book describes one night in Tokyo and all the events happen between midnight and 6:30 AM. One paragraph in particular stuck out to me. It’s a little long for a quote but take a second and read it. “A cycle has been completed, all disturbances have been resolved, perplexities have been concealed, and things have returned to their original state. Around us, cause and effect join hands, and synthesis  and division maintain their equilibrium. Everything, finally, unfolded in a place resembling a deep, inaccessible fissure. Such places open secret entries into darkness in the interval between midnight and the time the sky grows light. None of our principles have any effect there. No one can predict when or where such abysses will swallow people, or when or where they will spit them out.”I think this passage speaks beautifully to the impermanence of life. Often when we feel most comfortable in life, life shocks us back into the reality of what life really is! Fate is a fickle mistress and at any moment such an abyss can swallow us whole. Life is change, both drastic and subtle. Things have to change and all will according to their own time. Every cycle must eventually complete itself. Death sustains life.  We all know this to be true but we still fight it. We cling to things. We yearn, lust, fiend and fixate. If everything is prone to change, than living in blissful ignorance of this fact will only lead to pain. That is why I believe that how we react to change is very important to the path we take in life.  If all of whats surrounding us is constantly changing, and we ourselves our changing every second too, then we must be able to adapt to the new reality presented to us. As Murakami says, “None of our principles have any effect there.” Sometimes you have to abandon your normal customs or habits. Sometimes there are situations where holding on to something only holds you back. If it is dark outside, then don’t act like it’s not. It’s nothing to get upset about. The sun will be coming along soon enough. Just go with it.  





2/14 Valentine's Day


Posted: 2011-02-14 15:30:49 UTC-08:00
When it comes to relationships, I believe there are three vital components that are necessary for a successful match: physical attraction, mental attraction, and connection. Physical attraction is what we most commonly associate with love, but even when it is most intense it will eventually tire if there is nothing else behind it. This mental attraction I speak of can take many forms. It is usually shared interests, activities, ideologies, ideals, or a similar taste in music, clothes, movies and such. I call it mental attraction because it is finding something appealing about the other person that is not rooted in their outward appearance. This kind of attraction makes your partner more interesting and relatable to you and as a natural byproduct makes conversation between the two of you easier and more engaging. The mental side of love is sometimes overlooked but it is nevertheless important. I think many of us have had relationships where the other person was above average in looks but were dumb as a rock. Maybe they weren’t really dumb but their personality wasn’t intriguing or relatable to us, so we decide the issue must be intelligence. If one person is convinced they are vastly superior intellectually to their mate, the relationship cannot last, or if it does will be wrought with frustration and hurt. After all, the brain is our largest sexual organ and it should go without saying that mental and physical stimulation are equally indispensible. But this is not the full equation. There is something else. I know I, and I don’t think it’s uncommon, have met women who seemed a perfect match. They fulfilled all of my usual requirements physically and seemed like smart, interesting and cool girls. However, something seemed wrong from the beginning. It felt almost forced. The third element was missing; the connection. This is that subtle mingling of souls between two people that goes beyond physical or mental attraction. There are many ways we say this: we connected, there was a spark, we had a good vibe going, we hit it off. When it happens there is no arguing with it. When someone asks you to explain it we struggle for words or make up metaphors.   To be a true lover, all three elements must be present. For a healthy relationship, all three must be maintained. I think the feeling of falling in love is being overwhelmed by all three criteria being met in a short time. The sex is great. We find the other person captivating and like a unique flower in the world. And there is something else there inside. You can’t quite put your finger on it, but you know that it is real. As we all know, even emotion this strong can fade, but when your mind, body and the mysterious other thing, maybe the soul or spirit, are all engaged with another person’s, that is what we call true love. Frequently in life and love, we divide these three things against each other. Sometimes the brain rallies in protest but the body can’t stop because that stuff is just too good. Sometimes we work a job that satisfies the needs of our lifestyle and station in life that we hate because it isn’t interesting or engaging to us mentally. Often we do things because they seem the right thing to do or will get us what we thought we always wanted, but it still seems at odds with our deeper calling in life. I think to love and live a happy life, these three elements of the self need to be united in all we do. In order to be successful at anything, our whole person needs to be behind it. Whether its finding a partner in life, choosing a career, or what we do in our free time, neglecting one part of your being will lead to only dissatisfaction, disappointment, and regret. 





Walking 2/11


Posted: 2011-02-11 02:01:31 UTC-08:00
Walking is our primary mode of exploring the world around us. The many names we have for walking show how integral it is to our life. Each describes the same physical act but each unique intention or attitude for which to walk with warrants its own unique title. All the words describe the same basic act yet the implicit and implied meanings of many vary like wild. To advance is to make an aggressive move toward something. Some would rather meander casually around with no clear goal in mind. Escorting is a walk that requires two while prancing may make people question your sexuality.  To march is military. To wander is anything but.   How about stalk and strut? Those are two of my favorites. Stalk can just mean to walk but we usually think about as a sinister, not to mention creepy, thing to do. If you think of stalking you think of sneaking around corners, hiding in the shadows; trying to keep out of sight. Strutting is the complete opposite.  To strut is to walk with supreme confidence. It’s hard to miss a person strutting.  Their head is held high. Their chest is puffed out. They are walking with a brisk but not fast gait. There is no hiding or slinking in strutting. The strutter is brazenly presenting himself to the world afraid of no man’s judgment. My favorite kind of walking is hiking. I believe an occasional hike can be healthy in many ways. One is the obvious physical benefit. Hey, a little fresh air and exercise are good for everybody. Another benefit to hiking is the chance to escape from our lives for a short time. I think this can be good for mental health. At all other times our brains are worked to the point of strain, constantly analyzing, recalling, or stressing about all the problems in our life. But when I am on the mountain, I am not thinking about bills or the fight with my girlfriend or if I left the stove on. The mind and the body are united in the simple yet profound task of going up the mountain. That I think is my favorite part of hiking. There is always a clear goal and it is always reachable. That’s not to say that it’s easy, it can be quite challenging, but it is still attainable. I remember going hiking with my friend Tim one time in China. When we first got on the trail, we saw a pagoda, a glittering red speck high up on a seemingly distant peak. We almost joking stated our intention to reach it. The early spring morning was teeming with life. Budding flowers, the song of innumerable birds, maggots infesting a fresh carcass; the fecundity was tangible. Possessed by the atmosphere around us and our mission we plodded on through unrestrained nature. That is not to say we hurried. We paused at especially scenic views. When we caught sight of the pagoda Tim would stop to gauge our progress as I would take some deep breaths, do a quick qi gong form, or sneak a cigarette. Then we would continue on, taking everything in around us yet our goal still in the front of our minds. After a few hours, we spotted the pagoda right at the next peak in front of us, just a couple hundred yards away. Our pace quickened gradually until we were both racing for the zenith. We emerged from the endless boulders and trees shirtless, sweaty and filthy. We stood at the clearing before the pagoda.  We had made it. This is the most beneficial part of hiking. The moment of standing on top of the mountain and realizing I have reached my goal. It is such a life affirming feeling. I feel invincible. Anything is now achievable. Through uniting your mind, body and spirit I accomplished what I set out to do. This is walking at its highest form, but it’s still just walking. I try to remember that and bring this hiking feeling to my daily life. If I am completely absorbed in all that I do as I am when hiking, there is nothing I can’t do.





FeedBurner delivers the world's subscriptions wherever they need to go. Publish a feed for text or podcasting? 
You should try FeedBurner today.


