BACKWOODS SURVIVAL BLOG - powered by FeedBurner
&



BACKWOODS SURVIVAL BLOG

syndicated content powered by FeedBurner






...

Reset this favorite; show all Subscribe options



Subscribe Now!
...with web-based news readers. Click your choice below:







...with other readers:

(Choose Your Reader)FeedDemonNetNewsWireNewsFireNewsGator Outlook EditionRSSOwlShrookUniversal Subscription Mechanism (USM)


Get BACKWOODS SURVIVAL BLOG delivered by email


 View Feed XML




FeedBurner makes it easy to receive content updates in My Yahoo!, Newsgator, Bloglines, and other news readers.

Learn more about syndication and FeedBurner...

Current Feed Content



25 Signs That The Financial World Is About To Hit The Big Red Panic Button


Posted: Mon, 05 Sep 2011 13:20:00 +0000
25 Signs That The Financial World Is About To Hit The Big Red Panic Button: "Most of the worst financial panics in history have happened in the fall.  Just recall what happened in 1929, 1987 and 2008.  Well, September 2011 is about to begin and there are all kinds of signs that the financial world is about to hit the big red panic button.  Wave after wave of bad economic news has come out of the United States recently, and Europe is embroiled in an absolutely unprecedented debt crisis.  At this point there is a very real possibility that the euro may not even survive.  So what is causing all of this?  Well, over the last couple of decades a gigantic debt bubble has fueled a tremendous amount of 'fake prosperity' in the western world.  But for a debt bubble to keep going, the total amount of debt has to keep expanding at an ever increasing pace.  Unfortunately for the global economy, sources of credit are starting to dry up.  That is why you hear terms like 'credit crisis' and 'credit crunch' thrown around so much these days.  Without enough credit to feed the monster, the debt bubble is going to burst.  At this point, virtually the entire global economy runs on credit, so when this debt bubble bursts things could get really, really messy..."
        




FBI, Homeland Security Warn of Small Airplane Terror Threats


Posted: Mon, 05 Sep 2011 13:19:00 +0000
FBI, Homeland Security Warn of Small Airplane Terror Threats: "The FBI and Homeland Security have issued a nationwide warning about al-Qaida threats to small airplanes, just days before the anniversary of the 2001 terrorist attacks.


There is no specific or credible terrorist threat for the 10-year anniversary of the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, authorities said. But they have stepped up national security as a precaution.


Al-Qaida was considering ways to attack airplanes, as recently as earlier this year, according to a five-page law enforcement bulletin issued Friday.


The alert, issued ahead of the summer's last busy travel weekend, said terrorists have considered renting private planes and loading them with explosives..."
        




Virginia Earthquake - Nuclear Wake-Up Call for U.S. (Nuclear Plants not Prepared)


Posted: Mon, 05 Sep 2011 13:18:00 +0000

        




Experts Downbeat on Global Economy


Posted: Mon, 05 Sep 2011 13:17:00 +0000
Experts downbeat on global economy - Yahoo! Finance: "Business leaders and finance experts gathered in Italy offered a downbeat assessment of the global economy Friday -- with several predicting another recession due to a calamitous cocktail of sluggish growth, eurozone dysfunction, and financial market volatility.


The year's events -- from natural disasters and violent uprisings to fears of debt defaults -- have not only sent shock waves through the financial world but also caused a slump in confidence among consumers and industry..."
        




Evidence Suggests Cover-Up In ATF Scandal, As More Guns Appear At Crime Scenes


Posted: Mon, 05 Sep 2011 13:16:00 +0000
Evidence Suggests Cover-Up In ATF Scandal, As More Guns Appear At Crime Scenes | FoxNews.com: "Just hours after the death of Border Patrol agent Brian Terry, federal officials tried to cover up evidence that the gun that killed Terry was one the government intentionally helped sell to the Mexican cartels in a weapons trafficking program known as Operation Fast and Furious.


The revelation comes just days after a huge shake-up of government officials who oversaw the failed anti-gun trafficking program and Congress renewed its demand for more answers..."
        




Feds' COBRA Subsidy To End


Posted: Mon, 05 Sep 2011 13:15:00 +0000
Feds' COBRA subsidy to end - Sacramento Business, Housing Market News | Sacramento Bee: "One of the key consumer benefits of the federal stimulus package – subsidies to help laid-off workers continue their health care coverage – draws to a close today, raising concerns about how the unemployed will cover those expenses..."
        




Cops Confiscate Lakewood Lady’s Arsenal; Motive Pending


Posted: Fri, 02 Sep 2011 13:30:00 +0000
Cops Confiscate Lakewood Lady’s Arsenal; Motive Pending | Scene and Heard: Scene's News Blog: "Francesca Rice no longer serves in her country’s armed forces, but she brought a piece of the action back home with her.


It seems the Lakewood vet had stockpiled her Edgewater Towers condo with a home arsenal including handguns, shotguns, a sniper rifle — plus a Thompson sub-machine gun, just in case the pizza guy got fresh.


Her cache somehow caught the attention of Lakewood Police, who paid a visit last September. When they found Rice wasn’t home, they asked an obliging employee of the complex to open up the apartment without her consent. Once inside, they raided the gun rack, making off with 13 firearms worth around $15,000. The only problem: They had no apparent reason to.


When Rice kindly asked to have her toys returned, the cops acknowledged that the weapons were legally owned. But they refused to return them without a court order. And so Rice has filed suit..."
        




Big Government Run Amok: Fed Cracks Down On Amish Selling Contraband Milk After Undercover Sting


Posted: Fri, 02 Sep 2011 13:29:00 +0000
Fed cracks down on Amish selling contraband milk after undercover sting | Mail Online: "... Angry customers have insisted that they should have freedom of choice regarding their food.

Karin Edgett, a Washington DC resident, told the Washington Times: ‘I look at this as the FDA is in cahoots with the large milk producers.

‘I don’t want the FDA and my tax dollars to go to shut down a farm that hasn’t had any complaints against it. They’re producing good food, and the consumers are extremely happy with it.’..."
        




NASA Sees Katia Become Second Atlantic Hurricane


Posted: Fri, 02 Sep 2011 13:28:00 +0000
Nano Patents and Innovations: NASA Sees Katia Become Second Atlantic Hurricane: "The second Atlantic Ocean Hurricane was born today, Sept. 1 as Katia strengthened from a tropical storm in the central Atlantic...


... Katia is a now a Category one hurricane and is expected to bend north-northwest and miss the Leeward Islands. Maximum sustained winds are near 75 mph (120 kmh) with higher gusts, and some strengthening is forecast over the weekend. Katia is still a small storm about 250 miles wide, with hurricane force winds out to 25 miles from the center (35 km) and tropical storm force winds out to 125 miles (205 km).


The National Hurricane Center noted that Katia could become a major hurricane (Category three) over the weekend.


At 11 a.m. EDT on Sept. 1, Katia's center was still far from land. It was about 1050 miles (1,685 km) east of the Leeward Islands, near 15.5 North and 47.5 West. It was moving to the west-northwest near 18 mph (30 kmh) and is expected to slow down.


The National Hurricane Center said Katia is forecast to become a major hurricane on Sunday with winds over 111 mph. It will be between Puerto Rico and Bermuda so NASA will be watching it for the next week..."
        




Why Texas' Drought May Have Global Effects


Posted: Fri, 02 Sep 2011 13:27:00 +0000
Why Texas' Drought May Have Global Effects - TIME: "... Texas, Oklahoma, Louisiana and New Mexico have been caught in a heat wave that feeds on the drought... As sunlight hits the ground... it evaporates any moisture in the soil and raises the temperature of the soil. With no moisture, the ground is a virtual hot plate, adding to the misery. That misery is bound to end and the last of the year's 100-plus temperatures may be recorded this week, but this drought will have a ripple effect that will spread beyond the region in the months ahead, having an impact on the one place Americans do not need to feel the hurt: their pocketbooks.


From beef prices to the cost of a pair of socks, the Texas drought of 2011 will leave its mark on family budgets... Losses, so far, are estimated at $5 billion. Texas has lost a little over half of its cotton crop as parched fields brought back memories and statistics not seen since the great dust bowl of 1933. Texas produces 55% of the U.S. crop and two-thirds of America's yield is exported to mills in China, Mexico, Vietnam and Thailand..."
        




Financial Crisis Is Too Big for Developed World to Cope, Ex-IMF Head Says - Bloomberg


Posted: Fri, 02 Sep 2011 13:26:00 +0000
Financial Crisis Is Too Big for Developed World to Cope, Ex-IMF Head Says - Bloomberg: "The crisis threatening the global financial system exceeds the capabilities of developed nations and requires a new International Monetary Fund 'debt facility,' former IMF head H. Johannes Witteveen said...

... Renewed signs of economic weakness globally and the downgrading of U.S. debt by Standard & Poor’s have rekindled concern about the quality of government borrowing, especially in Europe. Slumping confidence has wiped $8 trillion from the value of equities in four weeks.

The leaders of euro zone nations have done everything politically feasible to counter the crisis, while the European Central Bank and the U.S. Federal Reserve are close to the limit of their capabilities, Witteveen said..."
        




Simulation: New Madrid Quake Would Kill 100,000 Instantly; Displace 7 Million


Posted: Thu, 01 Sep 2011 13:19:00 +0000
Simulation: New Madrid Quake Would Kill 100,000 Instantly; Displace 7 Million: "If you live in and around Illinois, Indiana, Missouri, Arkansas, Kentucky, Tennessee and Mississippi you might want to consider the following – then again, if you’re reading this web site you probably already have: 


In May, the federal government simulated an earthquake so massive, it killed 100,000 Midwesterners instantly, and forced more than 7 million people out of their homes. At the time, National Level Exercise 11 went largely unnoticed; the scenario seemed too far-fetched — states like Illinois and Missouri are in the middle of a tectonic plate, not at the edge of one. A major quake happens there once every several generations. 

… 

National Level Exercise 11, or NLE 11, was, in essence, a replay of a disaster that happened 200 years earlier. On Dec. 16, 1811, a magnitude 7.7 earthquake hit the New Madrid fault line, which lies on the border region of Illinois, Indiana, Missouri, Arkansas, Kentucky, Tennessee and Mississippi. It’s by far the largest earthquake ever to strike the United States east of the Rockies. Up to 129,000 square kilometers [50,000 square miles] were hit with 'raised or sunken lands, fissures, sinks, sand blows, and large landslides,' according to the U.S. Geological Service. 'Huge waves on the Mississippi River overwhelmed many boats and washed others high onto the shore. High banks caved and collapsed into the river; sand bars and points of islands gave way; whole islands disappeared.' People as far away as New York City were awakened by the shaking. 

More quakes, of a similar size, followed. But the loss of life was minimal: Not too many people lived in the area at the time. Today, there are more than 15 million people living in the quake zone. If a similar quake hit, '7.2 million people could be displaced, with 2 million seeking temporary shelter' in the first three days, FEMA Associate Adminsitrator William Carwile told a Congressional panel in 2010. 'Direct economic losses for the eight states could total nearly $300 billion, while indirect losses at least twice that amount.' 

Source: Wired Danger Room..."

        




Airlifts Take Food, Water To Cut-Off Vt. Towns


Posted: Thu, 01 Sep 2011 13:18:00 +0000
Airlifts take food, water to cut-off Vt. towns - Yahoo! News: "National Guard helicopters rushed food and water Tuesday to a dozen Vermont towns cut off by flooding from the rainy remnants of Hurricane Irene in a deluge that took inland areas of New England and upstate New York by surprise with its ferocity.


Vermont Emergency Management spokesman Mark Bosma said the helicopters would bring relief to people in a string of small towns where roads and bridges were washed out...


... Officials also used heavy-duty National Guard vehicles to reach communities where roads may be passable.In a disaster that caught many communities off guard, Irene dumped up to 11 inches of rain on Vermont over the weekend and turned placid mountain streams into roaring brown torrents that smashed buildings and ripped homes from their foundations. At least three people died in Vermont..."
        




U.N. Warns Of Bird Flu Resurgence, New Asian Strain


Posted: Thu, 01 Sep 2011 13:17:00 +0000
U.N. Warns Of Bird Flu Resurgence, New Asian Strain | FoxNews.com: "The United Nations warned Monday of a possible resurgence of the deadly bird flu virus, saying wild bird migrations had brought it back to previously virus-free countries and that a mutant strain was spreading in Asia.


A mutant strain of H5N1, which can apparently sidestep defenses of existing vaccines, is spreading in China and Vietnam, Tthe U.N. Food and Agriculture Organization said in a statement Monday. It urged greater surveillance to ensure that any outbreaks are contained.


Last week, the World Health Organization reported that a 6-year-old Cambodian girl had died Aug. 14 from bird flu, the eighth person to die from H5N1 avian influenza this year in Cambodia..."
        




Wake Up America! 10 Very Obvious Reasons Why The Devastating U.S. Jobs Famine Is Going To Suck The Hope Right Out Of America


Posted: Thu, 01 Sep 2011 13:16:00 +0000
Wake Up America! 10 Very Obvious Reasons Why The Devastating U.S. Jobs Famine Is Going To Suck The Hope Right Out Of America: "Do you have friends, neighbors and relatives that can't find work?  Well, unfortunately the current U.S. jobs famine is about to get a whole lot worse.  Right now there are approximately 13.9 million unemployed Americans.  That does not count those that 'are not looking for work'.  That does not count those that are working part-time jobs but that are desperate for full-time work.  The truth is that we need tens of millions more full-time jobs in order to give one to everyone that wants one.  Sadly, the long-term trends that have caused this mess continue to get worse.  Unless truly dramatic changes are made, the U.S. economy is going to continue to bleed jobs and that is going to suck the hope right out of this country.  It is time to wake up America!  It is not a big mystery why we don't have enough jobs.  But sadly, very few of our leaders are talking about the real issues..."
        




Three Years After Lehman, A New Debt Crisis Looms


Posted: Thu, 01 Sep 2011 13:15:00 +0000
Three years after Lehman, a new debt crisis looms | Business | The Guardian: "The F word is back. Back in the financial markets, back in the conclaves of central bank governors, back among the manufacturers and the high-street retailers. The four-letter word is fear.


Back in the spring, few imagined that we would be approaching the third anniversary of the collapse of Lehman Brothers on 15 September with such a sense of unease. The belief in early 2011 was that economic recovery was now well enough embedded for central banks to start raising interest rates and for finance ministries to crack on with the job of reducing budget deficits.


Although pockets of optimism remain, the mood today is different. Ben Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, has said the US central bank will discuss possible ways to stimulate growth when it meets next month. The Bank of England appears to be heading in a similar direction. There is anxiety at the International Monetary Fund that blanket austerity will tip fragile western economies back into recession. Concerns are once again being expressed about the health of the banks, about America's national debt and, above all, about whether the eurozone can survive its current crisis intact..."
        




Paul: Bernanke Is Out Of Options To Save Economy


Posted: Thu, 01 Sep 2011 13:14:00 +0000
Paul: Bernanke Is Out Of Options To Save Economy | FoxNews.com: "Chairman Ben Bernanke is not calling for another fix to the economy by the Federal Reserve because he's already used up all the quivers in the Fed's bow, Rep. Ron Paul said Sunday.

Paul is a 2012 Republican presidential candidate and supports the U.S. returning to the gold standard to protect its currency and force a balanced budget. He has been highly critical of the Federal Reserve and its chairman over plans for 'quantitative easing,' a two-part program which flooded the market with dollars in an attempt to make money more available for borrowing and lending.

Paul argued that Bernanke's plan to buy bank assets and drop more than $2 trillion into the economy did not yield the results the chairman hoped, a conclusion that Paul says Bernanke implicitly acknowledged during a speech last week in which he offered no new bailout programs from the Fed..."
        




More People Having to Delay Retirement


Posted: Thu, 01 Sep 2011 13:13:00 +0000
More people having to delay retirement - Telegraph: "The number of Britons forced to delay retirement into their late 60s and beyond has doubled over the past year as the rising cost of living hits home, a major study has revealed.

Worryingly, one in seven over-65s say they still do not know when they plan to retire, while a third of those aged between 45 and 64 are unsure about when they can stop working, the research found.

Squeezed householders have been left with little choice but to tear up their plans for retiring at 65 or earlier, the analysis said..."
        




Empty Shelves: Hurricanes, Disasters and Civil Unrest – a Contingency Plan


Posted: Wed, 31 Aug 2011 16:20:00 +0000
Empty Shelves: Hurricanes, Disasters and Civil Unrest – a Contingency Plan: "If you think that you’ll be able to simply drive to Wal-Mart or the grocery store and load up on food, water and supplies during an actual emergency, you are living in a fantasy world.  We now experience freak weather on a regular basis.  Oklahoma has experienced... record-breaking... temperatures, a massive hurricane... [hit] Washington, DC and the New York City area, and NASA continues to amplify their warnings regarding solar storms disrupting our way of life..."
        




Officially Declared Nuclear Nightmare


Posted: Wed, 31 Aug 2011 16:19:00 +0000
Officially Declared Nuclear Nightmare | Dr. Mark's Blog: "Nothing good about the nuclear news at the end of August as we have official recognition (finally) of what is going on in Japan and thus what is threatening the rest of the world, especially the northern hemisphere. It is now being said that the amount of radioactive cesium that has leaked from a tsunami-hit nuclear plant is about equal to 168 of the atomic bombs dropped on Hiroshima at the end of World War II, Japan’s nuclear agency said Friday the 26th. 

That’s like dropping one nuclear weapon a day since the beginning of this disaster and this is what they have been calling safe, no problem, don’t worry about it, go home and go to sleep..."
        




Hurricane Irene vs. The Idiots


Posted: Wed, 31 Aug 2011 16:18:00 +0000

        




U.N. Warns of Possible Bird Flu Resurgence


Posted: Wed, 31 Aug 2011 16:17:00 +0000
U.N. agency warns of possible bird flu resurgence - Yahoo! News: "The United Nations warned of a possible major resurgence of bird flu and said a mutant strain of the H5N1 virus was spreading in Asia and elsewhere. 

The UN's Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) on Monday urged increased surveillance and preparation for a potential outbreak of the virus, which it says has infected 565 people since it first appeared in 2003, killing 331 of them. 

The virus was eliminated from most of the 63 countries infected at its peak in 2006 after mass poultry culling, but since 2008 it has been expanding geographically in both poultry and wild birds, partly due to migration patterns, the FAO said..."
        




3, 2, 1: Global Debt Meltdown


Posted: Wed, 31 Aug 2011 16:16:00 +0000
3, 2, 1: Global Debt Meltdown: "We are steamrolling toward a massive global debt meltdown, and at this point world leaders seem to be all out of solutions.  Over the last 30 years or so, the greatest debt bubble in the history of the planet has produced unprecedented prosperity in the western world.  But now that debt bubble is starting to burst and the bills are coming due.  Many believe that 'ground zero' for the coming global debt meltdown will be in Europe.  Unlike the U.S. and Japan, the nations of the EU can't just print more money to cover their debts.  Nations such as Greece, Portugal and Italy must repay their debts in euros, and those nations are rapidly getting to the point where their debts are going to overwhelm them.  Unfortunately, major banks all over Europe are very highly leveraged and are also very heavily invested in the sovereign debt of nations such as Greece, Portugal and Italy.  If even one EU nation defaults it will start tipping over financial dominoes.  If more than one EU nation defaults it could cause a cataclysmic wave of bank failures all over Europe. 

But Germany and the other more financially stable countries of the EU cannot bail out nations like Greece, Portugal and Italy indefinitely.  Pouring money into Greece is like pouring money into a black hole.  When you take money from financially stable countries and pour it into hopeless messes, you may stabilize things for a little while, but you also cause the financial condition of the financially stable nations to start deteriorating..."
        




Weather Satellites And Storm Warnings Threatened By Federal Budget Cuts


Posted: Wed, 31 Aug 2011 16:16:00 +0000
Weather Satellites And Storm Warnings Threatened By Federal Budget Cuts: "Detailed images taken by National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) satellites over the last several days enabled weather forecasters to provide a fairly precise picture of just when and where Hurricane Irene was headed and how strong she would be. The satellites also relayed this critical information early enough so that people along the storm's path had days to stock up on food and water and, if necessary, move to higher ground... 

... But with the recent decision by Congress to allocate less than half of the billion dollars of funding needed to maintain and upgrade the fleet, officials warn of an upcoming gap in the service relied upon by weather forecasters, as well as the armed forces, search-and-rescue teams, energy companies and climate modelers..."
        




Hurricane Irene, Unusual Earthquakes, Unprecedented Tornadoes, Historic Flooding And Horrific Drought: Why Is All Of This Stuff Happening To America?


Posted: Tue, 30 Aug 2011 16:15:00 +0000
Hurricane Irene, Unusual Earthquakes, Unprecedented Tornadoes, Historic Flooding And Horrific Drought: Why Is All Of This Stuff Happening To America?: "What in the world is happening to America?  In more normal times it would be easy to dismiss Hurricane Irene as an isolated incident, but so far this year we have had some sort of a 'major disaster' almost every single month.  In addition to Hurricane Irene, this year we have also had truly unusual earthquakes, unprecedented tornadoes, historic flooding along the Mississippi and Missouri rivers, horrific drought, massive wildfires and a continuous onslaught of nuclear radiation from Fukushima.  Almost every single area of the United States has been affected by at least one of these disasters.  So why is all of this stuff happening to America all of a sudden?  Does anyone have any theories?  Right now we are having a 'once in a century' disaster every few weeks, and either we are just extremely 'unlucky' or there is a reason why all of this is happening..."
        






FeedBurner delivers the world's subscriptions wherever they need to go. Publish a feed for text or podcasting? 
You should try FeedBurner today.


