Is The Number Of Earthquakes Increasing? Why The 5.8 Virginia Earthquake Might Just Be A Preview Of Things To Come










Home
Gold Coins
Silver Coins
Emergency Food
Water Filters
IPods
IPhones
Apple iPads
Contact
Books
Gifts For Women
Platinum Coins
eBay Motors

The American DreamWaking People Up And Getting Them To Realize That The American Dream Is Quickly Becoming The American NightmareCommentsBy EmailPosts





   
    
Commentary

Economic Crisis

Politics

Federal Reserve

Moral Crisis

Environment

Housing Crash

Debt

Big Brother

Corruption

Crime

War

Health

Financial

World









 

 
90 Minutes In Heaven: A True Story Of Life After Death 
 


 




		Shop silver coins at Bizrate


ads from Shopzilla,Inc



Bizrate


  Recent Posts 
10 Years After 9/11, Is America A Better Place?
Workers Comp For Babysitters And 20 Other Reasons Why California Is Stupid
Fukushima Is Continually Blasting All Of Us With High Levels Of Cesium, Strontium And Plutonium And Will Slowly Kill Millions For Years To Come
30 Signs That America Has Become A Horrible Place For Children
Hurricane Irene, Unusual Earthquakes, Unprecedented Tornadoes, Historic Flooding And Horrific Drought: Why Is All Of This Stuff Happening To America?
Is The Number Of Earthquakes Increasing? Why The 5.8 Virginia Earthquake Might Just Be A Preview Of Things To Come
14 Conspiracy Theories That The Media Now Admits Are Conspiracy Facts
America Is Rotting While China Is Rising
30 Questions That Children Should Be Asking Their Parents About The U.S. Economy
Barack Obama Cannot Get Congress To Pass Amnesty For Illegal Immigrants So Now He Is Just Going To Ram It Down Our Throats Any Way That He Can

 Please Visit The Economic Collapse Bookstore
 

 Promote The Ready Store On Your Own Website And Make Extra Money
 







 Is The Number Of Earthquakes Increasing? Why The 5.8 Virginia Earthquake Might Just Be A Preview Of Things To Come


Is the number of earthquakes increasing?  Are major earthquakes becoming more frequent?  In the aftermath of the magnitude-5.8 earthquake in Virginia, a whole lot of people are asking those questions.  All over the mainstream media, "experts" are coming on and assuring the public that all of this is "normal" and that the number of earthquakes is not actually increasing.  The USGS continues to insist that the frequency of major earthquakes has been "fairly constant" and that there is no reason for alarm.  But is that really the truth?  In this article, you will be presented with evidence that the number of earthquakes is definitely increasing.  Please approach the evidence with an open mind.  The truth is that this year we are on pace to have more than twice the number of major earthquakes than we did just 10 years ago.  The mainstream media is much more interested in keeping people calm than it is in telling them the truth.  Our planet is becoming increasingly unstable, and the magnitude-5.8 Virginia earthquake that we just witnessed might just be a preview of things to come.
The Virginia earthquake is already being called a "once a century" earthquake for the east coast. The earthquake was felt from Georgia all the way up to Ottawa, Canada.  It was felt as far west as Cleveland, Ohio.  It prompted the evacuation of congressional buildings and the Pentagon.  The earthquake actually cracked the Washington Monument and now it is closed indefinitely for repairs.
But that was not the only major seismic event in the U.S. that day.  A magnitude-5.3 earthquake rattled the area along the Colorado/New Mexico border.  That was the largest earthquake that region had seen in more than 40 years.
If these were isolated incidents, that would be one thing.  Unfortunately, major earthquakes are popping up all over the globe with alarming frequency.  In fact, a magnitude-7.0 earthquake just struck northern Peru.
But just because we have had some notable earthquakes this year does not mean that earthquakes are increasing in frequency.
What do the hard numbers tell us?
Well, when you take a look at the numbers it quickly becomes clear that the number of earthquakes is increasing.
Back in 2001, the world had 1361 earthquakes of magnitude-5.0 or greater.  This year, we are on pace to have over 2800.  In fact, the number of major earthquakes this year is going to be the highest number we have seen during this past decade by far.
So how do the "experts" explain this away?
The following is what the USGS has to say about why it seems that the number of earthquakes is increasing....
We continue to be asked by many people throughout the world if earthquakes are on the increase. Although it may seem that we are having more earthquakes, earthquakes of magnitude 7.0 or greater have remained fairly constant.
A partial explanation may lie in the fact that in the last twenty years, we have definitely had an increase in the number of earthquakes we have been able to locate each year. This is because of the tremendous increase in the number of seismograph stations in the world and the many improvements in global communications.
Are you buying that?
I'm not.
Yes, technology may enable us to detect more earthquakes than we did 50 or 100 years ago, but there has not been a quantum leap in earthquake detection technology during this past decade.
But what we have seen during this past decade is a definite rise in the number of major earthquakes.
The following chart of earthquakes magnitude-5.0 or greater over the last decade comes to us from americandailyherald.com....
Please keep in mind that this year (2011) we are on pace to have more than 2800 earthquakes of magnitude-5.0 or greater.  Once that number is included, the chart will look even more dramatic.
The following chart shows the number of earthquakes having a magnitude of 6.0 or greater since 1973.  This chart comes from dlindquist.com, and it includes data for this year.  As you can see, the number of magnitude-6.0 earthquakes for this year is "off the charts" because we are on pace for well over 200....

So after viewing these charts, how can anyone still deny that the number of major earthquakes is increasing?
But that is exactly what all of the "experts" on the mainstream news are going to keep on doing.
In the end, do your own research and find out for yourself.  Don't let the television do your thinking for you.
The reality is that we live in very unstable times.  Unfortunately, the increase in the number of earthquakes appears to be part of a larger trend.  So far in 2011, natural disasters of all types seem to be increasing in frequency.
We all remember what happened earlier this year in Japan.  That was an event that was absolutely unprecedented in modern Japanese history.
But we have also seen a lot of other weird geological events around the globe so far this year.
For example, a few weeks ago a series of earthquakes caused an entire river to disappear in Costa Rica.
In addition, gigantic cracks and massive sinkholes have been appearing all over the earth.  Nobody is quite sure why this is happening.
There are all sorts of theories about why the planet seems to be becoming more unstable, but you don't have to be a rocket scientist to figure out that this is not a good trend and that we should all be preparing for the worst.
In the United States, there is quite a bit of evidence that the New Madrid fault is starting to come to life.  If you live in the middle part of the country, you should really get educated about the history of the New Madrid fault and about what a major earthquake in that area could mean for you.
There is a whole lot to be concerned about on the west coast as well.  More earthquakes occur along the "Ring of Fire" than anywhere else, and there is a lot of evidence that we are starting to see the "Ring of Fire" become a lot more active.
So the next time an "expert" appears on television assuring you that earthquakes are not becoming more frequent and that you don't have anything to be concerned about, don't be so quick to believe that person.
The cold, hard reality of the matter is that the number of earthquakes is increasing and our planet is becoming increasingly unstable.
Yes, it is a bit frightening, but wouldn't you rather know the truth?





Help Make A Difference By Sharing These Articles On Facebook, Twitter And Elsewhere:
August 25th, 2011 | Tags: Earthquake, Earthquakes, Major Earthquakes |  Category: Environment 


« Hurricane Irene, Unusual Earthquakes, Unprecedented Tornadoes, Historic Flooding And Horrific Drought: Why Is All Of This Stuff Happening To America?    14 Conspiracy Theories That The Media Now Admits Are Conspiracy Facts »

80 comments to Is The Number Of Earthquakes Increasing? Why The 5.8 Virginia Earthquake Might Just Be A Preview Of Things To Come
« Older Comments
1
2





 Bill S



		August 31st, 2011 at 12:16 am
 · Reply 
Magnitude 5.0-5.9 earthquakes are VERY common and they do very little damage. You have to look at 7.0 or higher to see quakes that do a lot of damage. Yes, there’s been 1769 quakes of 5.0-5.9 but they don’t matter much. To keep it simple, as you go down the earthquake scale the number of earthquakes increases by a factor of 10. So quakes of 8.0 or higher still average only 1 per year. 7.0-7.9 about 14, 6.0-6.9 about 150. And so on.
http://earthquake.usgs.gov/earthquakes/eqarchives/year/eqstats.php





 Ellen Draper



		September 3rd, 2011 at 11:11 am
 · Reply 
Bill S is absolutely correct! This article focuses on 5.0+ earthquakes and the USGS statistics focus on 7.0 and above. No, seismic technology probably hasn’t leaped in advancement over the last 20 years but the worldwide distribution of seismic technology HAS! This means that even third world countries are contributing data to the complete understanding of earthquakes around the globe and our data is no longer just limited to wealthier countries. So the presence of seismic activity is much larger than what we had 20 years ago and thus, fearmongering websites such as this are able to weave fear among the faint of heart.




« Older Comments
1
2



Leave a Reply

Cancel 


 
			 
            Name (required)


 
			 
            Mail (will not be published) (required)


 
			
            Website


                You can use these HTML tags
<a href="" title=""> <abbr title=""> <acronym title=""> <b> <blockquote cite=""> <cite> <code> <del datetime=""> <em> <i> <q cite=""> <strike> <strong>                 












« Hurricane Irene, Unusual Earthquakes, Unprecedented Tornadoes, Historic Flooding And Horrific Drought: Why Is All Of This Stuff Happening To America?    14 Conspiracy Theories That The Media Now Admits Are Conspiracy Facts »





 



 

 Follow @Revelation1217

 
 
Pages 
Alternative Energy
Apple iPads
Books
Contact
eBay Motors
Emergency Food
Gifts For Men
Gifts For Women
Gold Coins
Home Security
IPhones
IPods
Personal Security
Platinum Coins
Popular Toys
Silver Coins
Water Filters
Website Privacy Policy

 





 Enter your email address to get new articles from The American Dream delivered directly to your email:Delivered by FeedBurner
 




















    Copyright © 2011 The American Dream - All Rights ReservedPowered by WordPress & the Atahualpa Theme by BytesForAll. Discuss on our WP Forum 







