 Premier on site of earthquake devastation|Home|chinadaily.com.cn
/ Home
 Premier on site of earthquake devastation
 Updated: 2013-04-22 12:28
 By Chen Xin (China Daily)
 
Print
Mail
Large Medium  Small
分享按钮
0 
 
 
Volunteers Yang Chengcheng (left) and Xiao Long, from Southwest University for Nationalities in Chengdu, join soldiers to rush injured people to an aid center 10 kilometers away in Lushan, Sichuan province, on Sunday. Chen Cheng / Xinhua
A total of 188 people were dead and 11,460 were missing as of press time on Monday, two days after a powerful earthquake hit Ya'an city in Southwest China's Sichuan province, according to China Central Television. 
The magnitude-7 earthquake hit the city at 8:02 am on Saturday. 
China's Premier Li Keqiang climbed onto a heap of debris to view the disaster area after arriving in Lushan county, Sichuan province, where he expressed condolences to victims and survivors of the devastating earthquake. 
"We should put saving people first because people's lives are more precious than anything else. We should use scientific means, including using life detectors, to rescue every person who might survive," Li told reporters at the epicenter in Lushan on Sunday morning. 
Li flew to Lushan shortly after the earthquake struck and visited temporary settlements, hospitals and tents. 
He was even leading a meeting in a tent when a magnitude-4 aftershock occurred. 
Even though electricity supplies had not yet resumed, Li held a meeting illuminated by flashlights as he spread out a map and directed relief work. 
"I have met many people affected by the disaster in Lushan, and I told them that the government will help you to rebuild a beautiful home," he said. 
The premier visited patients at West China Hospital in Chengdu, capital of Sichuan, on Sunday. The hospital is treating many of the seriously injured. 
"You do not have to worry about medical treatment fees. The government will take care of you," Li told 71-year-old Yang Shangming, while holding his hand and asking him about his injuries and treatment. 
While visiting Zhang Ke, a seriously injured 8-year-old boy, Li leaned over and whispered: "Does it hurt? Don't be afraid. You will be fine." 
Li also visited Yang Yujie, a 7-year-old boy whose mother and elder sister remained missing after their home was ruined in the quake. The boy's father was hurrying home from his job in another city. 
"We should try our best to reduce the rate of disability and mortality," the premier told doctors and nurses in the hospital. 
Ling Feng, head of neurosurgery at Beijing's Xuanwu Hospital, was on a business trip to Sichuan's Luzhou city on Saturday and volunteered to help at West China Hospital. 
"Premier Li said the nation is grateful to medical experts for helping the injured, and he urged me to take care," he said. 
Ling plans to go to disaster-hit areas to rescue the injured. 
As of 6 pm on Sunday, West China Hospital had received and treated 213 quake victims. 
Li urged local officials to check every house and make the utmost effort to save lives as long as there is one gleam of hope, deploy capable medical personnel to treat and cure the injured, and transfer seriously injured people quickly. 
Responding to the call, 20 batches of soldiers conducted the check and set up temporary tents for affected people in open areas on Saturday night. 
"The main task tonight is to check every household in remote areas and transfer people who are still in dilapidated houses and build temporary tents for them to protect them from the harm of aftershocks," Liu Jianping, a division chief with Chengdu military garrison, was quoted as saying by China Central Television. 
Some survivors in the tents were listening to the latest news about the disaster. 
"Is this your tent? Is it OK for you to sleep here tonight?" Li asked them. 
"Aftershocks still continue so you cannot return home. Although the conditions here are not good, safety comes first," he said. 
Jiang Xueqing contributed to this story. 
chenxin1@chinadaily.com.cn 
8.03K
More China News
Left-behind people suffer in hard-hit region
Intl scholarship puts China on the map
Telecom workers restore links
Police warn against quake scams
No pandas affected in Sichuan quake
Authorities work to ensure relief supplies
More World News
Hagel's Israeli visit to focus on Iran, Syria
DPRK in talks with Iran for oil deals
9 killed in roadside bomb attack in Iraq
EU to discuss Syria arms embargo
Two killed in fighter jet crash in Iran
Capital of Culture 2013 carnival in Benghazi
Photo
Police: Bombing suspects planned more attacks
Premier: Rescue every person
Chinese soldiers clear mines, win hearts
More bird flu patients discharged
 
Credibility still top concern for Chinese firms
Every second counts in rescue
Soldiers bring hope to earthquake-battered region
Chinese victims' families arrive in Boston
Most Viewed
Editor's Picks
All-out efforts to save lives
American abroad
Industry savior: Big boys' toys
New commissioner
same love for China
Liaoning: China's oceangoing giant
TCM - Keeping healthy in Chinese way
Today's Top News
Investment patterns alter with times
Official promotes Beijing-Washington ties
Baoxing struggles to recover after quake
Chinese soldiers clear mines, win hearts
Intl scholarship puts China on the map
More bird flu patients discharged
Telecom workers restore links
Relief materials to reach quake zone
US Weekly
Beyond Yao
and Yi
Money power
Video
Slide
Photos
Auto Shanghai 2013 – general news coverage
Boston bombing follow-up
Slide: Up to 15 dead after blast at Texas plant
Countdown to Venezuela vote
Houston air show kicks off
Bicycle Festival kicks off in Buenos Aires
Special
M7.0 earthquake strikes Ya'an, Sichuan
TCM - Keeping healthy in Chinese way
