 Deadly earthquake hits south-west China | World news | guardian.co.uk 
Turn autoplay off
Turn autoplay on
Please activate cookies in order to turn autoplay off
Jump to content [s]
Jump to site navigation [0]
Jump to search [4]
Terms and conditions [8]
Edition: US
UK
Your activity
Email subscriptions
Account details
Linked services
Profile
Mobile
		
	        About us
    
About us
Contact us
Press office
Terms of service
Privacy policy
		
	        Subscribe
    
Guardian iPhone
iPad edition
Kindle
Guardian Weekly
Digital edition
The Guardian
UK and World news
User comments
News
US
World
Sports
Comment
Culture
Business
Money
Environment
Science
Travel
Tech
Media
Life & style
Data
News
World news
China
Deadly earthquake hits south-west China
More than 100 killed and thousands of homes damaged in 6.6-magnitude quake near Ya'an, Sichuan province
Share
Tweet this
Email
        
		Peter Goff in Longmen, Tania Branigan in Beijing and agencies	
guardian.co.uk,
				            Saturday 20 April 2013 10.30 EDT
 
Link to video: Aftermath of fatal earthquake in Sichuan, China
At least 156 people are dead and more than 5,500 injured after a powerful earthquake rocked Sichuan, in south-west China, on Saturday morning, officials said.The 6.6-magnitude shock is believed to have been on the same fault as the devastating quake that left 70,000 dead and another 18,000 missing in the province five years ago. It struck close to Ya'an, a city of 1.5 million people west of the provincial capital, Chengdu, at about 8am local time.The China Earthquake Administration said at least 156 people had died. The government of Ya'an said more than 5,500 people were injured, 330 of them seriously.Officials said almost all the buildings in Longmen village collapsed during the minute-long tremor. "It was such a big quake that everyone was scared," a woman who answered a phone at a nursery told the Associated Press. "We all fled for our lives."Nearly 10,000 houses throughout Lushan county were damaged. In some areas, roads were cut off, power failed and telecoms service was intermittent.Rescuers used dynamite to clear boulders that had fallen across roads in order to reach Longmen and other damaged areas lying farther up the mountain valleys, state media reported.More than 6,000 soldiers have been dispatched to aid rescue efforts in the mountainous area. China's president, Xi Jinping, and the premier, Li Keqiang, called an emergency meeting to co-ordinate the response and Li has flown to the disaster zone to supervise work, the official broadcaster reported.Initial reports suggested the worst damage was in rural villages around Ya'an, which lies on the edge of the Tibetan plateau. The state news agency Xinhua reported major building collapses and damaged roads in Shuangshi and Longmen townships. 
Footage on China Central Television showed a makeshift triage centre in a square outside Lushan county hospital where medical personnel bandaged bleeding victims.A man who answered the phone at the Jiajia Hotel in Ya'an said many houses had collapsed and many people were injured.Another man living nearby said officials and company bosses had evacuated everyone to outdoor spaces. "It is very chaotic everywhere and people have no idea what we can do," he said. "We were the frontline of [the May 2008] earthquake, so in most companies, departments or organisations there are emergency resources, but we need more. Hopefully we can get over it soon, and it won't be as bad as last time."Lushan, where the quake struck, lies where the fertile Sichuan plain meets foothills that eventually rise to the Tibetan plateau, and sits atop the Longmenshan fault. It was along that faultline that a devastating magnitude-7.9 quake struck on 12 May 2008, leaving more than 90,000 people dead or missing and presumed dead. It was one of the worst natural disasters to strike China in recent decades."It was just like May 12," Liu Xi, a writer in Ya'an who was jolted awake by Saturday's quake, said via a private message on Weibo, a Twitter-like service. "All the home decorations fell at once, and the old house cracked."Chinese seismologists recorded the quake at magnitude 7, while the US Geological Survey recorded it at magnitude 6.6 at a depth of 12km.Residents in Chengdu and Chongqing, hundreds of miles away, fled their buildings as they felt the tremor and repeated aftershocks. Chengdu airport was briefly closed to air traffic and railway officials halted 82 trains, China Daily reported.
Sign up for guardian.co.uk today
guardian.co.uk today is our daily snapshot of the top news stories, sent to your inbox at 8am
Sign up for the daily email
Print this
Share
Contact us
Send to a friend
Sender's name
Recipient's email address
Your IP address will be logged
Share
				Short link for this page:
				http://gu.com/p/3f9q6
StumbleUpon
				
reddit
				
Tumblr
				
Digg
				
LinkedIn
				
Google Bookmarks
				
del.icio.us
				
livejournal
				
Facebook
				
Twitter
				
Contact us
											                           Report errors or inaccuracies: reader@guardian.co.uk
											Letters for publication should be sent to: letters@guardian.co.uk
					If you need help using the site: userhelp@guardian.co.uk
					Call the main Guardian and Observer switchboard: +44 (0)20 3353 2000
Advertising guide
License/buy our content
Article history
About this article
Deadly earthquake hits south-west China
		   		    									This article was published on
							guardian.co.uk
							at 10.30 EDT on Saturday 20 April 2013. 
					   	It was last modified at 09.13 EDT on Sunday 21 April 2013.
						 It was first published at 04.31 EDT on Saturday 20 April 2013. 							
World news
China ·															
Earthquakes ·															
Natural disasters and extreme weather ·															
Asia Pacific 
More 			news
	
More on this story
 
 Earthquake hitting Sichuan, China, caught on camera – video 
 CCTV footage shows the moment an earthquake hits Chengdu, Sichuan province, China
 
 Aftermath of fatal earthquake in Sichuan, China – video 
 
 Sichuan earthquake leaves devastation - in pictures 
 
 China earthquake: 'The house crumbled and the people inside had no chance' 
 
 Earthquake rocks Sichuan, China – in pictures 
Share
Tweet this
Email
Our correspondents on Twitter
Follow all the top stories of the day on Twitter with the Guardian's world news team
john_hooper: As part of the plan for rejuvenating Italian politics, Giorgio Napolitano, aged 87, has agreed to remain president #news #Italy
about 1 day, 1 hour ago
john_hooper: All the talk in #Italy this morning is of getting Napolitano to stay on for another 7-year term as president. He is 87. #news
about 1 day, 5 hours ago
john_hooper: #Italy presidential vote: #Prodi just pulled out after humiliating failure to secure a 50% majority #news
about 1 day, 20 hours ago
• Follow all our correspondents on a Twitter list
		
	        Today's best video
    
Boston Marathon attack: thermal images show Dzhokhar Tsarnaev hiding in boat – video
											                        
                                    			Massachusetts state police release thermal images which show Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, suspect in the Boston Marathon attack, hiding in a boat
		
What's in my cocaine?
											                        
                                    			How potentially toxic substances are used by drug dealers to 'cut' cocaine
		
The Guardian Film Show: Olympus Has Fallen, Love is all You Need, Evil Dead and Fuck for Forest - video review
											                        
                                    			Henry Barnes, Peter Bradshaw and Catherine Shoard review Olympus Has Fallen, Love is all You Need, Evil Dead and Fuck for Forest
		
Boston Marathon bombing suspects
											                        
                                    			FBI video of two men sought in connection with Monday's terrorist attack
		
On the Guardian today
Comment is free
Why does America lose its head over 'terror' but ignore its daily gun deaths?
Technology
Sir Norman Parkinson, fashion photographer, celebrated in Google doodle
World news
Boston bomb suspect under heavy guard as officials wait to question him
Football
Tottenham v Manchester City – as it happened
Comment is free
What rights should Dzhokhar Tsarnaev get and why does it matter?
Sport
Rafael Nadal v Novak Djokovic – as it happened!
On World news
Most viewed
Latest
Last 24 hours
1. 
Boston bomb suspect under heavy guard as officials wait to question him
2. 
FBI faces questions over previous contact with Boston bombing suspect
3. 
Boston Marathon attack: thermal images show Dzhokhar Tsarnaev hiding in boat – video
4. 
Boat where Dzhokhar Tsarnaev hid 'looked like Swiss cheese' after shootout
5. 
Obama accused of nuclear U-turn as guided weapons plan emerges
More most viewed
Last 24 hours
1. 
Earthquake hitting Sichuan, China, caught on camera – video
2. 
Sichuan earthquake leaves devastation - in pictures
3. 
Fisherman survives shark attack in Australia – video
4. 
Chuck Hagel: arms deal sending 'clear signal' to Iran over nuclear programme
5. 
California brush fire forces evacuation of 200 homes
All today's stories
Sponsored feature
Top stories in this section
Top videos
Most popular
		
	        Today in pictures
    
BBC Sports Personality of the Year – in pictures
											                        
                                    			Bradley Wiggins capped his remarkable sporting year by taking home the big prize at the ceremony in London
		
Dinner, dusk and dancing Russians: my best winter shot
											                        
                                    			A glass of wine with a rough sleeper, Santa in trunks, a thousand partying Muscovites … in a My Best Shot special, top photographers pick the image that sums up winter for them
		
Monkey adopts kitten – in pictures
											                        
                                    			Kimon, an eight-year-old pet female long-tailed monkey, treats a kitten as her baby in Bintan Island, Indonesia
		
 
		
	        Hot topics
    
Eurozone crisis
Libya
Syria
Gaza
US elections 2012
License/buy our content
					
  |     			    				    
																																										
			
	
	
	
				
		
Privacy policy
					
  |     			    				    
																																										
			
	
	
	
				
		
Terms of service
					
  |     			    				    
																																										
			
	
	
	
				
		
US Advertising
					
  |     			    				    
																																										
			
	
	
	
				
		
A - Z index
					
  |     			    				    
																																										
			
	
	
	
				
		
About guardiannews.com
© 2013 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved.
Share
Tweet this
	
;
