Sikkim Earthquake Death Toll rises to 18
This page require Adobe Flash 9.0 (or higher) plug in.
Exploring the News Stuffs from India and World......
Home
Breaking News
Entertainment
Sports
Cricket
World
Women
Consumer Forum
Odisha
Blog
Editorial
PR/Events
 Fast against Koodankulam N-plant ends             
							   Tendulkar's ODI revamp proposal rejected             
							   Google+ made Public, dares Facebook             
							   Bombay HC rejects Kochi Tuskers' plea against BCCI             
							   Wedding Hall collapses in Bangalore              
							   Rajasthan Home Minister blamed for Bharatpur Riots             
							   Rahul Gandhi visits Sikkim to meet Quake Victims             
							   Akshay Kumar donates 250,000 pounds to Indian Ice Hockey             
							   NTRO Women Employees filmed in Office Toilet             
							   CBI opposes probe against Chidambaram in 2G Scam             
							   Bird Flu outbreak confirmed in West Bengal             
							   Omar confirms Mehbooba Mufti praised Modi             
							   Sikkim Quake Death Toll rises to 53, India Toll 68             
							   CLT20 Qualifier: Somerset beat Auckland by 4 Wickets             
							   Gas Leak at Tarapur Power Plant, 4 Killed             
					
 
 
 
 
					Sikkim Earthquake Death Toll rises to 18			
 
 
 
			Written by Breaking News Online Team		
		  
	
		Monday, 19 September 2011 10:36	
Breaking News! A powerful earthquake of 6.9 magnitude that hit Sikkim on Sunday evening, triggered massive destruction killing 18 people including 7 in Sikkim, 4 in West Bengal 2 in Bihar and 5 in Nepal.
The death toll could rise further. As per the latest report, 400 personnel from the National Disaster Relief Force (NDRF) have reached Bagdogra to gear up the rescue operations. Over 100 people have been inured and the armed forces have deployed a team for relief and rescue operation. The emergency teams from Centre have also reached the spot. However, the rescue and relief operation is getting hampered due to heavy rain, power cut, and loss of mobile phone connectivity. The quake rocked Sikkim and Gangtok at 6.10 PM on Sunday. The tremors were also felt in most of the north east part of the country including West Bengal, Bihar, Odisha and neighbouring Nepal. The epicenter of the earthquake was Mangan, 54 km from Gangtok. The national highway is closed due to heavy rains and landslides. People are feared to be trapped.
Â 
Follow us on Twitter & Be our Fan on Facebook.
		Last Updated on Monday, 19 September 2011 15:37	
Tweet
 Bookmark this on Delicious
 
Add comment
Name (required)
E-mail
Refresh
Send
Cancel
JComments
 
 
 
 
Enter your email address:
Delivered by FeedBurner
Indian Railways
Wikipedia Search
PayPal Money
Google News
Currency Calculator
YouTube Video
Indian Stock Market
Weird News
 
Copyright © 2007 - 2011 BreakingNewsOnline  
 
About
Advt.
Contact
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
