Sikkim Earthquake: A Personal Experience | Techrav
 
Home
About
Contact us
Add Us To Facebook
ARCHIVES
SUBSCRIBE TO THE RSS FEED
SUBSCRIBE TO THE FEED VIA E-MAIL
Software
Website
Social Network
Gadgets
Mobile
Others
Categorized | Others
Tags | 18 sept earthquake, 18-9-11 earthquake, about earthquake, earth quake, earthquake, earthquake experience, earthquake in india, earthquake in sikkim, earthquake news, earthquake pictures, earthquakes, gangtok earthquake, sikkim earthquake, west bengal earthquake
Sikkim Earthquake: A Personal Experience
Posted on 19 September 2011 by Gourav
A boring Sunday afternoon turned into a rocking (literally) show of power by nature as a massive earthquake of magnitude 6.9 Mw hit Sikkim and nearby areas. With people experiencing the earth shaking underneath, the rain gods didn’t show any mercy either and heavy rainfall only made matters worse.
The Indian Air Force was immediately left for rescue and relief operations but landslides in the hilly region has made it a daunting task to even reach the affected areas.
I was in Siliguri, my home town at the time of the disaster and here is my personal experience during all of it.
18th Sept 2011, Inox City Center, Siliguri : I was watching the movie “Mere Brother Ki Dulhan” with my family munching pop corn and sipping soft drink. Little did I know that I won’t even be able to complete either of them. Shortly after the interval I realized that my seat was shaking. I turned around thinking that some lame person behind me was doing that. To my horror, the row behind was empty.
Instantly I saw people around me running around trying to escape. It was the earthquake. I tried to calm myself expecting that the quake will just halt (it usually does) and that it was no good to panic. But my next sight left me horrified. It was a part of the ceiling falling right in front of the big screen. It was no ordinary earthquake.
I held hands of my younger brother and asked him to follow me. My aunty left her slippers in the chaos and was walking bare feet. Uncle was constantly trying to calm her down. We just kept on walking avoiding the falling debris and watching our steps. A piece of the roof fell aside brushing my left shoulder. I could see people crying and praying. I wondered how a small display of power by nature can make humans feel so tiny.
We came out through the emergency exit of the cinema hall. People were hurrying to get into their cars and I hoped that the rushing of cars don’t create another mishap. I was constantly trying to make a phone call at home but the network was all jammed.
Somehow we reached our car and left for home. A motorcycle accident some distance ahead was the next thing I saw on the road. “How much worse is it going to get?”, I wondered. Upon reaching home and finding everyone safe, I took a sigh of relief. However, I was still not able to contact my friends in my college Sikkim Manipal Institute of Technology, not very far from the epicenter of the earthquake.
A few hours passed, and I finally had a talk with my friends there. There was no bad news and everyone was unharmed (no serious injuries, at least). I also came to know from a teacher of mine about her well being and how she was sitting outside her home at 11.30 at night just to be careful in case there was another tremor. The college buildings and the hostel building suffered some damage as well and can be seen from the pics:
The overall damage total is still being calculated as the effect of the earthquake is spread across many regions including countries of India, Bangladesh, Nepal and Bhutan. The administration has also started the following helpline numbers which can be reached for any queries:
Gangtok Police (Sikkim) helpline numbers: 03592-202022 or 03592-202033
West Bengal police emergency helpline number: 033-22145486
The number of casualties is still under count, and I pray for all the victims of this aftermath.
P.S. : Although this is a tech blog, I couldn’t help myself from sharing my experience. If you have any information to share or any queries then please let us know through the comments.
Leave a Reply
Name (required)
Mail (will not be published) (required)
Website
POPULAR
COMMENTS
FEATURED
TAG CLOUD 
Google+ : A Brief IntroductionRecharge Your Phone Online !Make Your Personalized URL for Google+Go Green with Nokia Bicycle Charger Kit !Get Your @facebook.com email id !
Shannon: Binfer is another great option for large file tran...
Fritz Mamudoski: Awesome post. Keep them coming!...
DTH: really Payment is completely secure on the site an...
pankaj: wud luv to join it....!!!...
Gourav: Thanks for sharing the link Rushan....
Google+ : A Brief Introduction
Make Your Personalized URL for Google+
Speed Up Your PC in 3 Simple Steps !
Keep A Track On The Emails You Send !
Upload Photos to Your Facebook Account with just a “Right-Click” !
3d
@facebook.com
auto rikshaw fare
bribe
chat
cool google url
corruption
facebook
fare calculator
go green
google+
google plus
google tips
gplus url
ideone
ipadiabribe
mnp
mobile
nokia
office
office alternatives
online coding
online IDE
online recharge
Ophiuchus
personal google+ url
phone
programming
rechargeitnow
repair pc
rockmelt
search better
self destruct mail
share files
share google profile
short google url
Slow Down
sluggish pc
smart search
talking e card
track email
tuk tuk
valentine e-card
valentine ideas
zodiac 
Giveaway of the Day
CATEGORIES
Featured (5)
Gadgets (3)
Mobile (1)
Others (8)
Social Network (8)
Software (10)
Website (12)
RELATED SITES
Documentation
Plugins
Suggest Ideas
Support Forum
Themes
WordPress Blog
WordPress Planet
ARCHIVES
September 2011 (1)
August 2011 (1)
July 2011 (7)
May 2011 (1)
March 2011 (2)
February 2011 (3)
January 2011 (10)
December 2010 (7)
INFORMATION
Premium News Home
Designed by Adii
Log in
Powered by Wordpress
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
Copyright © Techrav.Original News Theme by .
