Sikkim earthquake toll rises to 61
WebSify      
     Follow us on          
Sify Mail Login | Register 
 Home
 Movies
Finance
Sports
 Techtalk
 News
 Astrology
 Bawarchi
Games
Shopping
WWE
 Samachar
Videos
Domain
Travel
Narendra Modi  | 
Earthquake  | 
Education  | 
 Slide Shows  | 
 Columns  | 
  India news   | 
New Delhi   | 
  Chennai   | 
Mumbai   | 
 World news   | 
Offbeat   | 
   Latest news   
 
Sify Home >> News >> National >> Sikkim earthquake toll rises to 61
IANS
 
Sikkim earthquake toll rises to 61
 
 2011-09-21 09:50:00Last Updated: 2011-09-21 10:06:42 
  
  
Members of Indian Army engineering wing help a Buddhist monk to descend a h... Gangtok: The toll in the Sikkim earthquake on Wednesday went up to 61 as workers continued to feverishly search the affected areas, an official said.  Heavy rains and landslides were hampering rescue work and locals were in a state of shock, he said.   The 6.8-mangitude quake on Sunday had rattled large parts of India. It also jolted Nepal, Tibet and  Bangladesh.    About 350 people were injured in the temblor, said the official.   About 2,000 people had taken shelter in makeshift relief camps set up by the government in various parts of the state.   Congress general secretary Rahul Gandhi will visit Sikkim later Wednesday to take stock of the rescue and relief efforts.   Educational institutions remain closed indefinitely. Students from outside Sikkim are moving out of the state for fear of fresh tremors.     People in the worst affected north Sikkim are distraught over the extensive damage to their homes and many passed the nights on pavements.   'We are scared to go inside our house at night and hence are staying in the open...,' said Maya Devi, 65, resident of Mangan, the epicentre of the earthquake in north Sikkim.   Road communication between Sikkim and the rest of India has been restored with army soldiers clearing massive landslides on National Highway 31A, the lifeline linking capital Gangtok to Siliguri in West Bengal. SEARCH 
Recommend this Article! Click 
All About:  National, Sikkim, Congress, Earthquake, Sikkim earthquake, Topnews
 Comments |    Share |   Print  |  Rate 
More Headlines
 
Most Popular on Facebook
 
Talking Point on Sify News Powered by Disqus
      
Video Gallery
 
 
Kashmiris against division of state: Pad..
 
Afghans protest assassination of Burhanu..
 
Former PoK PM suggests Intra-Kashmir con..
 
Rahul Gandhi meets Sikkim quake victims
 
Sikkim: Death toll crosses 60, rescue wo..
More
 
  Sponsor Ads    
Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
blog comments powered by Disqus
 
