CBBC Newsround - Powerful earthquake hits Sichuan, China
       
                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   Newsround   CBBC on TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             
Shows
Games
Watch
Music
Things to do
Newsround
My CBBC
Front Page
News
Sport
Entertainment
Animals
20 April 2013
Last updated at 11:42
Powerful earthquake hits Sichuan, China
A powerful earthquake in south-west China has killed more than 100 people and left hundreds more injured.
The 6.6-magnitude quake struck rural areas of Sichuan province early on Saturday.
Many buildings have been destroyed. Power and water supplies and telephone lines have been cut.
Rescuers try to remove rocks blocking a road
Thousands of soldiers have been sent to help rescue anyone who might be trapped.
But aftershocks and landslides are making it hard to reach some parts.
One injured man told Chinese TV: "We still live in our old house, the new one is not ready yet. Our house just collapsed. Everything collapsed."
Sichuan was devastated by an earthquake in 2008. Tens of thousands of people died and 5 million were left homeless.
More on This Story
More news stories
Quiz: Test yourself on last week's news
How much can you remember about the past week's biggest news stories? Find out with Newsround's Quiz of the Week!
Chat: Your London Marathon messages
The London Marathon, the world's largest annual fundraising event, is taking place this Sunday. Send us your messages of support to the runners.
Boston bombs suspect captured
Police hunting a man they think was behind the Boston Marathon bombings capture their suspect.
Prince Harry's race to South Pole
Prince Harry will take part in a 208-mile race to the South Pole with a team of wounded British servicemen and women.
Watch Newsround's special programmes
Our top stories
Chat: Your London Marathon messages
Sheep survive 23 days in snow
Pictures: London Marathon world record hopefuls
Dr Who finale title and poster
Boston bombs suspect captured
Watch Newsround
Watch the latest update from Newsround, CBBC's news programme for children. 	
				  
Quiz: 1D or waxwork? Spot the difference!
One Direction have been turned into waxworks by Madame Tussauds - but can you tell the difference between the boys and their waxy imposters? 	
				  
Video: The week's weirdest online clips
Newsround takes a look at the top three weirdest news stories of the week. 	
				  
Quiz: The week's news headlines
How much can you remember about the past week's biggest news stories? Find out with Newsround's Quiz of the Week! 	
				  
All about our Inventions Competition
Dick and Dom have teamed up with Newsround to launch an exciting inventions competition.  We want kids to dream up inventions that solve everyday problems. 	
				  
Watch Newsround's special programmes
 
Watch MOTD kickabout
Newsround Specials
Press Pack
Newsround Games
 A big list of all our stuff
Contact Newsround
    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  
    
