Sichuan, China earthquake photos show rescue efforts | News | National Post
 National Post
HomeFinancial PostNewsCommentPersonal FinanceInvestingTechExecutiveEntrepreneurSportsArtsLifeHomesDrivingClassifiedsNewsCanadaWorldIsrael & The Middle EastTorontoGraphicsHoly PostPhotosEditors BlogNP TodayLottery Results
News
TrendingJuno winners | Boston | Trudeau | Mulcair | NHL | Jays | Bieber | Porter | Rita MacNeil | Rehtaeh | North Korea | Masters
Photos show devastation of Chinese earthquake as injury toll reaches 15,000Gillian Wong, Associated Press | 13/04/22 10:42 AM ETMore from Associated Press
Twitter
Google+
LinkedIn
Email
Comments
More
Tumblr
Pinterest
Reddit
Digg
FarkIt
StumbleUpon
LUSHAN, China — The tent village that sprang up in two days to house quake survivors in mountain-flanked Lushan is no ordinary refugee camp. China’s full range of disaster response is on display: Trucks with x-ray equipment, phone-charging stations, bank tellers-on-wheels — even a tent for insurance claims.
The efforts under way Monday in mountainous Sichuan province after a quake Saturday that killed at least 188 people showed that the government has continued to hone its disaster reaction — long considered a crucial leadership test in China — since a much more devastating earthquake in 2008, also in Sichuan, and another one in 2010 in the western region of Yushu.
“Lushan was so heavily hit and my family’s house toppled. It has been such a disaster for us,” said Yue Hejun, 28, as he waited to recharge his family’s three mobile phones at a charging stall, volunteered by a communications company and co-ordinated by the government in a new addition to the arsenal of services after natural disasters. “If we can charge our phones, we are at least able to keep in touch with our family members outside and that helps to set our minds at ease.”
RelatedDozens feared missing after quake strikes China, killing at least 186 people and injuring more than 11,000‘Even the aftershocks are scary’: Death toll climbing after powerful earthquake rocks China
At a mini-clinic with two green cots in the open air and a small tent for doctors to sleep, a doctor said the government has learned the importance of fast co-ordination since the Yushu quake, which killed more than 2,600 people. Much of the initial relief in that disaster came from Buddhist monks and other non-government volunteers, partly because of the remoteness of much of the affected areas.
“After 24 hours or 48 hours in Yushu, things were not so orderly or settled in,” said the doctor, who like many government officials would give only her surname, Luo. “The government’s quick, organized response is very important. It’s no use to blindly come here and try to save people.”
Helicopters have been an obvious presence in the latest rescue efforts, used to reach outlying communities, unlike in 2008 when bad weather hampered their use in the critical first 36 hours. This time, better use of helicopters for reconnaissance — with remote sensing technology — and for the distribution of aid has allowed help to get out more quickly to where it is needed, said Teng Wuxiao, director of the Institute of Urban Public Security at Fudan University in Shanghai.
Still, complaints were common among the survivors of the latest quake, especially in the more hard-to-reach areas. While aid was being delivered, it was not getting out to all who need it. Yue said family members in his remote mountain village had received no help with shelter and were living under tarpaulins.
Huang Mingxian, 47, who was camped out with seven family members in a government-issued blue tent in a small public square, said the government’s efforts were appreciated but that supplies were not always distributed fairly.
“This morning is the first time in three days that we have gotten instant noodles,” Huang said, waving a pair of long chopsticks she was using to stir the noodles in a wok over a gas canister-powered mobile stove. “Other areas have electricity and water, what about us?”
Earlier Monday, about two dozen residents briefly gathered on a street corner near a camp area, shouting that they had not been given food in two days. A half-hour later, a large truck rolled up and dozens of evacuees ran up to it, jostling as the supplies were being handed out.
The death toll in Saturday’s quake — measured at magnitude 7.0 by Chinese authorities and at magnitude 6.6 by monitors in the U.S. — may continue to tick upward, with about two dozen people still missing. More than 15,000 people have been sent to hospitals, with more than 300 of them seriously injured.
Central authorities’ ability to respond to natural disasters has been seen as tests of legitimacy for centuries. Chinese emperors put state resources into controlling floods, and earthquakes and other disasters were believed to be signs that a dynasty was losing the “mandate of heaven.”
The state-run tabloid Global Times boasted in an editorial of China’s communal “disaster-relief” culture, and its “more mature” response to the latest quake, comparing it favourably to those overseas. “In its ability to mobilize people and in other indicators, China’s disaster relief comes ahead of the United States, Japan and other developed countries,” the newspaper said.
The Foreign Ministry said that Beijing is turning away foreign offers of assistance, saying China is capable of handling it on its own.
In Lushan county’s town, where many of the buildings are unsafe for use, the grounds of schools, hospitals, a gymnasium and other government buildings have been converted into evacuee camps. Quake survivors formed long lines in front of trucks and stalls to receive instant noodles, bottled water and other supplies.
Beyond the bare necessities, there are also stalls for survivors to make insurance claims, a large vehicle that converts into a bank and ATM-on-wheels, and tents sponsored by Chinese telecoms companies providing numerous electrical extension cords for residents to recharge their electrical gadgets.
High school seniors in the disaster area will be moved this week to the provincial capital, Chengdu, along with 30 teachers so that they can continue classes and take the all-important university entrance exam, the state Xinhua News Agency reported.
As typically happens after disasters, Chinese with cars were packing them with supplies and heading to the disaster area. Anticipating traffic congestion that could hamper emergency teams, the government issued a notice Monday asking volunteers, tourists and others not trained as rescuers to stay out of the disaster area.
However, authorities were letting motorcyclists through.
Peng Song, 28, an outdoor equipment retailer who biked to Lushan from the provincial capital of Chengdu, had his motorcycle packed with tents and bottled water and was riding with 14 other bikers-turned-volunteers out to remote communities.
“Those in the disaster area need help. We just want to offer a hand to them, that’s all,” Peng said.
				Find National Post on Facebook
			
Twitter
Google+
LinkedIn
Email
Comments
More
Tumblr
Pinterest
Reddit
Digg
FarkIt
StumbleUpon
Most Popular
Prev
Next
 Boston Marathon bombing suspect awake, answering questions in writing: reports Alleged Boston bomber went from partying college kid to callous killer and back in the space of days Homeland Security’s proposed new Canada-U.S. border fee for all vehicles prompts alarm in New York Five shot to death at apartment complex south of Seattle  ‘Disgraceful’ professor ignites firestorm over his secret: modern scientists do not need advanced math 'They have not been honest': Ontario PCs to call for non-confidence vote before Wynne can present budget Group on mission to prove there is truth in legends that Nazi submarines went far inland from Canadian coast Canadian soldiers in Afghanistan forced to return danger pay after 'administrative error' How alleged Boston bomber went from dedicated athlete to disaffected extremist Parents of Boston bombing suspect describe scrutinized Russian trip, say he had nothing to do with militants House of Commons to debate new Terrorism Act, NDP questions Conservatives' timing post-Boston attacks Paternity case settled out of court leaving sperm donor laws far from clear Crikey! French fisherman survives after crocodile bites down on his head, tries 'death roll' 'They vaulted the counters': Two people shot in west-end Toronto bank robbery Canada may be considering request from U.S. to join missile shield Afghanistan Taliban kidnaps at least 11 civilians after Turkish transport helicopter makes emergency landing Second man arrested in rape of five-year-old girl as fresh wave of protests hits India Ontario communities hit by flooding hope worst now over 'Gun shy': Vic Toews cancelled big events to mark end of long-gun registry at the last moment without explanation Photos show devastation of Chinese earthquake as injury toll reaches 15,000 While Boston bombing suspect lies in hospital, U.S. begins search for ‘root causes’ Boston Marathon bombing suspect unable to speak after shot to throat: senator Ultra-rare Canadian ‘dot cent’ penny fetches 25 million times its face value at coin auction ‘Voluntourism’: Mixing luxury vacations with charity work can harm as much as it helps Video shows bomb suspect dodging blast, Massachusetts governor says Prince Harry vows to beat Canadians in race to Antarctica — and then give them a cup of tea At least 185 people killed in hours of fighting between Nigeria's military and Islamic extremists FBI questioned 'very religious' Boston bombing suspect two years before he was killed in police chase Lesson one — it isn't the Czech Republic: Bombing suspects turn U.S. attention on little-known Chechnya 'I want proof': Toronto aunt of Boston Marathon bombing suspects urges nephew to explain himself Don't 'sit around trying to rationalize it': Harper slams Trudeau for response to Boston bombing At least three dead, 144 injured as two bombs hit Boston Marathon finish line 'If you did it, explain yourself': Canadian aunt says Boston Marathon bombing suspects had no motive Justin Trudeau raised over $2-million in donations during leadership run, team says Boston bombing suspects planned more attacks, police chief says The Canadian who converted to jihad: Boxer turned militant killed in Dagestan Canadian woman accused in Gaddafi smuggling plan returns home after 18 months in Mexican prison Dozens feared missing after quake strikes China, killing at least 186 people and injuring more than 11,000 Lottery winner puts $1-million toward effort to legalize marijuana 'We are at war with Russia, not the United States of America': Dagestan rebel group distances itself from Boston bombers Posted Toronto Political Panel: Bixi will likely need a bigger subsidy to save bike-sharing system Search for stem cell donor for sick four-year-old Montreal girl heads to Toronto Idyllic Israeli resort town of Eilat struck by rockets fired from Egypt Man in iconic wheelchair photo had bomb dropped at his feet by capped man, tearing his legs apart, brother says  Opposition questions diplomatic skills of former Mountie chosen as next ambassador to Jordan Donations to liver foundation surge after Tories' 'striptease' attack ad against Trudeau
Topics: News
blog comments powered by Disqus
Our Partners
Infomart
The Province
Vancouver Sun
Edmonton Journal
Calgary Herald
Regina Leader-Post
Saskatoon StarPhoenix
Windsor Star
Ottawa Citizen
The Gazette
Classifieds
Remembering
Celebrating
Classifieds Marketplace
Workopolis
FlyerCity
Classifieds Self-Service
Services
Advertise with us
Subscribe
ePaper
Newsletters
Site map
Legal
Privacy
Terms
Contact us
Copyright & permissions
Connect with Us
Twitter
Facebook
LinkedIn
Pinterest
© 2013 National Post, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited.
 
