China Quake Kills Many and Injures Thousands - NYTimes.com
Subscribe:
Digital / Home Delivery
Log In
Register Now
Help
Home Page
Today's Paper
Video
Most Popular
Edition: U.S. / Global
Search All NYTimes.com
Asia Pacific
World
AfricaAmericasAsia PacificEuropeMiddle East 
U.S.
 
N.Y. / Region
 
Business
 
Technology
 
Science
 
Health
 
Sports
 
Opinion
 
Arts
 
Style
 
Travel
 
Jobs
 
Real Estate
 
Autos
Surviving China’s Latest Earthquake, but Afraid to Go Home  
Color China Photo, via Associated Press
A woman whose house was destroyed by an earthquake in Sichuan Province on Saturday. More Photos »
 
By 
JANE PERLEZ
Published: April 20, 2013    
YUXI, China — Many residents of this tiny village in the mountainous region of southwest China spent Saturday night in tents and makeshift shelters, too scared to sleep in their flimsy homes after an earthquake killed 188 people early that morning.        
  
 Multimedia
Photographs
Devastation and Frustration in Aftermath of Quake
Connect With Us on Twitter
Follow @nytimesworld for international breaking news and headlines.
Twitter List: Reporters and Editors
Enlarge This Image
China Daily/Reuters
An aerial view showed houses damaged after an earthquake in China’s western region of Sichuan Province on Saturday.                            More Photos »
Enlarge This Image
Reuters
Residents sat outside houses damaged by a strong earthquake in the village of Longmen in China's Sichuan Province on Saturday.                            More Photos »
Enlarge This Image
Agence France-Presse — Getty Images
People gathered outside in Chongqing after the earthquake.                            More Photos »
Roofs buckled, walls tumbled and windows broke after the earthquake shook houses and sent boulders tumbling down mountain sides onto the narrow road that leads into this valley of Lushan County near the epicenter of the earthquake, which Chinese authorities said had a preliminary magnitude of 7.        
The aftermath was not nearly as serious as the 7.9-magnitude earthquake in 2008 that left more than 70,000 people dead in the Wenchuan area. But villagers who work in Chengdu, about 100 miles away, streamed back home Sunday morning, many on foot, the lucky ones on motorbikes, to check on their homes.        
Song Yuanqing, 43, a construction worker, arrived back after a 22-hour trip to find his roof and the walls unstable. “We would like to do something, but we can’t do anything,” Mr. Song said as he sat with neighbors around an outdoor fire built by the village leader in his backyard. Some people had slept under the machinery at a lumber yard. The village leader, Gao Zaimeng, said his house — a two-story concrete structure that is one of the best in town — shook violently. “More violent than in 2008,” he said. Although his house was intact, he was too nervous to risk sleeping or cooking inside, he said.        
About 50 soldiers attached to the People’s Liberation Army’s regional headquarters in Chengdu marched in formation along the main village street, armed with shovels and picks to help shore up buildings. In all, the government deployed about 7,000 soldiers and People’s Armed Police officers to the affected area. By Saturday evening, there were so many rescue workers in the area that the government asked volunteers to stop coming.        
China’s prime minister, Li Keqiang, perhaps mindful of the criticism of the rescue efforts in 2008, flew to the area and slept in a tent on Saturday evening in Lushan County.        
The earthquake shook Sichuan Province at 8 a.m., when people were rising a little later than usual because schools and universities were closed.        
“We were just getting up and getting dressed in our dormitory when the building shook, and I looked outside from our seventh-floor window and saw a row of houses collapsed,” Xu Yan, 22, a student at the Agricultural University in Ya’an, said in a telephone interview. “I have never flown down the stairs so fast.”        
The Chinese government said early Sunday that the known death toll was 174, with most of the victims in Ya’an. The ministry also said that about 5,700 people had been injured.        
The United States Geological Survey said that the earthquake occurred on the Longmenshan fault line, the same one responsible for the 2008 quake. But more than 12 hours after the initial tremor, the impact seemed to be far less severe.        
Chinese radio quoted an unnamed official who said, “We have a basic grasp of the overall disaster situation, and there won’t be thousands or tens of thousands of fatalities.”        
Rescue efforts were hampered by landslides, and officials expressed concern about two barrier lakes that had formed after debris blocked two waterways.        
The tremors were felt in Chengdu, one of China’s biggest cities and the capital of Sichuan Province. Residents described water spilling out of home aquariums and objects like home water dispensers falling to the floor.        
Yang Yubing, an executive at a sculpture factory in Baoxing County, one of the hardest-hit areas, said he was visiting Chengdu when he felt the tremors. He immediately left on a seven-hour drive to his home in Baoxing. But emergency workers stopped him when he got close to his apartment, Mr. Yang said. “They said five or six kilometers of roads were collapsed,” he said in a telephone interview. “We are all living in temporary tents in the school.” Badly injured people were taken to hospitals by helicopter, he said.        
In the town of Longmen, another hard-hit area within Ya’an’s jurisdiction, a resident, Zhang Yan, said 90 percent of the buildings had collapsed.        
“About 100 people died around here,” Ms. Zhang said in a telephone interview. “Rescue crews have not yet arrived. There is no water or electricity.”        
Xinhua quoted a hospital official who said scores of injured people were sprawled in front of the county hospital on Saturday afternoon. Firefighters in Lushan County pulled 27 survivors from collapsed buildings, Xinhua said.        
The 2008 quake raised questions about poorly constructed schools that collapsed and killed thousands of students.        
That earthquake prompted an extensive official relief effort and a passionate outpouring of volunteer help. But some quake-stricken residents and observers criticized the government for sending rescue efforts to the wrong places, or for failing to muster the equipment needed to lift victims from under slabs of concrete and brick. Instead, many troops and rescuers clambered over the rubble with sticks and spades.        
This time, the government appears intent on avoiding any accusations of lagging behind        
In 2008, officials restricted independent reporting on the disaster, but Ran Wang, a businessman, said he hoped officials would allow greater transparency. “No censorship, no cover-ups or control so the right of the people and society to be informed during natural disasters is respected,” he wrote on his microblog account.        
The Longmenshan fault line, which runs between the Tibetan plateau and Sichuan Basin, is seismically active. Twelve earthquakes with a magnitude of 5 or greater have occurred along the fault line since 1900, said Jiang Haikun, an official with the China Earthquake Administration.        
Sichuan Province is also one of China’s best-known habitats for pandas, and at the Bifengxia reserve, about six miles north of Ya’an, workers said that 20 pandas in the park were safe. “We inspected the panda area after the quake, and they were unaffected,” said Chen Yong, the media relations officer of the reserve.         
Andrew Jacobs contributed reporting from Beijing, and Chris Buckley from Hong Kong. Patrick Zhou contributed research from Qionglai, and Bree Feng from Beijing.
 
 
A version of this article appeared in print on April 21, 2013, on page A8 of the New York edition with the headline: Surviving China’s Latest Earthquake, but Afraid to Go Home.
 
Try unlimited access to NYTimes.com for just 99¢.  SEE OPTIONS »
Get Free E-mail Alerts on These Topics
Earthquakes
China
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
            Inside NYTimes.com        
Home & Garden »
Tiling 102: The Bathroom Floor
Health » 
Yoga After 50
Opinion »
Fixes: Young Movers, With a Passion for Change
Contestants for the Peace First Prize devise innovative ways to fight problems like bullying and poverty.
Great Homes »
Where Coconuts Come Calling
Fashion & Style »
Come as You Were
Opinion »
Op-Ed: Here Comes the Buzz
Fashion & Style »
Would Anna Settle for a Safety Pin?
Home & Garden »
Lessons in How to Play With Fire
Opinion »
Op-Ed: Waiting and Waiting… for Justice
There’s a civil way to speed up justice in minor criminal proceedings: let defendants stay home.
U.S. »
Charting a New Path for Special Operations
Arts »
The Digital Stage for Six-Second Zingers
Opinion »
The Right of Inmates to Starve
Room for Debate asks whether it is ethical for doctors and nurses to force-feed hunger strikers at Guantánamo.
© 2013 The New York Times Company
Site Map
Privacy
Your Ad Choices
Advertise
Terms of Sale
Terms of Service
Work With Us
RSS
Help
Contact Us
Site Feedback
