Your's Truly : Rajan Shahi : Rajan Shahi Official Blog
ventures
Bollycurry
Telly Buzz
Meme4u
WassupTV
Zingmag
Rajan Shahi
Ediary, India-Forums Drive
Let's connect!  This blog is a way for me to connect to you all who have watched my shows in the past and are currently watching my work - Sapna Baabul Ka Bidaai & Yeh Rishta Kya Kehlata Hai!  Join me in making this blog and ediary active, memorable and special! 
April 2009
May 2009
June 2009
October 2009
November 2009
     
     
Home
Castings.
Comments: 1295   
Views: 92117 	
			Posted on:  22 April 2010 at 12:00am
Dear Blog Buddies,
   I have gone through all your comments on
Bidaai and Yeh Rishta... I understand your anger and pain regarding Ragvir's
importance in tracks. Hope that the coming episodes will somewhere make you
happy. I liked the observation of not having a much better Salekh's
moment a day after consummation. There also have been many observations about
Yeh Rishta... which I have forwarded to the creative team.
    
 
   The time has come
when Director's Kut Production is searching and auditioning fresh faces
and new talent for upcoming projects. This is an exciting phase where I hope to
meet, nurture and groom new talent who can take the legacy forward of all the
leads we have introduced. If any of you are interested or would like to refer
somebody who is interested then kindly contact the casting team on the below
contact details.
Email - dkpcasting@gmail.com
Mobile - 09819903809
Office Number - 022-40767555
I will connect to you soon.
Your's Truly,
-Rajan Shahi
Posted in : Director's Kut
Thank You!!!
Comments: 676   
Views: 31246 	
			Posted on:  18 March 2010 at 12:00am
Congratulations to all the €˜Yeh Rishta Kya Kehlata Hai€™ and €˜Bidaai€™
viewers.
For the fourth week running, Yeh Rishta....... is no.1 with
a TRP of 7.0 and Bidaai is no.2 with a TRP of 6.6 across all channels. Special
thank you to all the members who might not have agreed, criticized, felt let
down. But have supported Bidaai and Yeh Rishtaa.... all along.
I am proud of my TEAM because they have worked very hard on
both the shows and I think these episodes stand for the BEST in terms of
script, performance, direction, editing, music......
I am really happy for Bidaai team since they have given a
fitting reply to all the people who had written them off. We have achieved our
highest ratings even with the advent of the IPL and this has been the most
consistent fact that in the last three years we have reached out highest TRP€™s
when the IPL goes on.
Tommorrow [19th March], a very fitting song is
being telecasted on Bidaai called €˜Badhaai ho Badhaai€™. A song which I have
been planning to shoot for the last two years. The engagement party tomorrow with
this song, is going to be very interesting.
I am extremely happy that without compromising to false
gimmicks and over-the-top drama, we have managed to be consistent in our
performance. There will be ups and downs. But once again I want to thank my
Bidaai and Yeh Rishtaa.... teams.
Posted in : Director's Kut
'Happy New Year'
Comments: 1300   
Views: 30664 	
			Posted on:  12 January 2010 at 12:00am
Dear Blog Buddies,
 
 
Wish you all a very happy new year, hope this year bring you good luck, good health and prosperity, my sincere apologies for the late reply as I'd been traveling lately.
I've read all your comments and I know how connected you all are to my shows and like I always say that nothing is being neglected on my blog, you buddies are my inspiration and motivate me to do exceptionally well in all of my shows, I appreciate all the love and respect I receive from everyone out there, I couldn't have asked for more.
'Bidaai' is one of the shows which is very close to my heart and I'm sure that in due course of time it will reach greater heights and expectations, all the characters are strong and will definitely be seen in different shades in the upcoming tracks as for 'Yeh Rishta Kya Kehlata Hai' we will be celebrating our 1 year anniversary, thank you all for your warm wishes.
 
 
Yours truly
 
Rajan Shahi.
Posted in : Ediary
ANSWERS
Comments: 770   
Views: 32921 	
			Posted on:  30 November 2009 at 12:00am
Dear blog buddies,
 
It is not always possible to reply specifically to the
number of questions asked on the blog, however all your comments are minutely
read by me they are formulated as questions, likes and dislikes and are discussed
with all 3 creative teams of all the 3 shows. (Bidaai, YRKKH and Swarg).
I have always been open to criticism in regards to all my
shows; all comments are welcome because creativity is not rocket science, it always
has two points of views some agree and some don't which is justified as every
individual is different and has the freedom of speech, I respect all the strong
reactions that I come across on the blog and I do know that it is only because
of the fact that you all have connected to the shows in a very short span of
time however it is very funny to see that one negative comment on the blog each
time, which has got nothing to do with my shows but is more of a personal attack
to me, such people are not welcome here, please find your own ways and means to
vent out your frustrations.
Even if one has a personal comment that he/she would like to
highlight, if put across in a nice manner it is always welcome, I request all
you buddies to keep the blog clean and healthy and let it be a reflection of
you and your thoughts.
Ragini is truly a very strong character and it
will definitely be justified in the forthcoming episodes also got an
exceptionally good response on the Maha 'SWARG' episode.
Posted in : Ediary
'SWARG'
Comments: 64   
Views: 4073 	
			Posted on:  26 November 2009 at 12:00am
'Swarg' has been the most satisfying and enriching show to me as a producer. It not only has good performances, story, and actors but is also extremely entertaining. In the last couple of weeks we saw the TRP's going up and it is very encouraging to see that, according to me the range of the show from where we initially started to where we are today, and heading to where we want to is by far one of the most satisfying and interesting journey I've travelled.
I am confident of 'Swarg' and also know that the best is yet to come. Swarg will now see some mind-blowing twists and turns. Shubh {Pracheen} and Suhani {Archana} are hugely popular which I hadn't realized until I recently went through the media and public reactions in Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh; I was truly amazed by their popularity. Gayatri { Vini Arora} will be seen giving an outstanding performance in the upcoming tracks, Infact I've even told my actors and leads from the other shows to watch her performance.  Ansh {Dheeraji} is also one of my favourite characters in the show although his track has not majorly opened up yet,I have come across very good feedback regarding him and it is nice to see that the youth has connected with him too.  Ansh is an extremely hard-working and sincere actor. I'd loved ansh's and gayatri's chemistry in the initial episodes and I'm personally looking forward to see more romance between the two on the show, Let's wait and see what happens in the near future and I'm sure that once the track is explored it will be a brilliant love story which would also compliment the love story of shubh- suhani as already been shown. Awaiting all your feedback on this.
When I read the feedback given in the blog and forum it comes across to me as it might not be as popular a show as in the smaller cities but I'm positive with the upcoming tracks, the show will appeal all across. 
It has been an absolute pleasure to have been working with 'Colors'. I admire Saurabh for his vision, clarity, conviction and faith, his entire Team is immensely integrated and focused and the best part is that they all share the same vision, clarity and thoughts.
The 'DKP TEAM' of 'SWARG' comprising of the Actors, Director's, Creative Director's, Writer's, Technicians, and Production are also a very committed and hard-working team. I admire their dedication and hard work and hope they take 'SWARG'to greater heights.The upcoming one hour episode of 'Swarg' which is going to be telecasted this Saturday 28th november 09 is definately an episode to look forward to,it is an extremely interesting episode and will keep you all glued. Looking forward to your reactions on the same.
Posted in : Ediary
  
