Mohit & Sanaya : Mohit and Sanaya's Blog
ventures
Bollycurry
Telly Buzz
Meme4u
WassupTV
Zingmag
Mohit & Sanaya
Home
Miley Jab Hum Tum Is Back!!!
Comment: 468   View: 21270
				27 July 2011 at 12:00am
			
			
				
Hey Guys,Well both of us are very excited to see Miley Jab Hum Tum reruns on Star One.  We do have the dvds of the show but there are some episodes we don't have and its nice to catch the reruns again on television.  It definitely brings back memories for us of the days when we were shooting for the show.  Both of us want to thank our fans as we are sure its due to your popular demand that the channel has started reruns of the show.  We love you all!Love,Mohit & SanayaNOTE: THIS BLOG IS BEING MODERATED AND THUS COMMENTS MAY TAKE TIME TO APPEAR ON THE BLOG!
Posted in: Memories
Shooting Around The Clock....
Comment: 367   View: 18350
				30 June 2011 at 12:00am
			
Hey Guys,
 
First of all I
want to apologize for putting up a blog entry after so long.  I have been a little hooked up with the
shoot of my new show.  Since we don't
have an episode bank yet, we are shooting around the clock.  However, I am enjoying the entire lights,
camera, action setup all over again. 
But yes I am missing Mohit a lot more than I had ever imagined.  I also miss moments like meeting over a
cup of coffee as that's our favorite activity.  
 
I hope all of
you are enjoying watching my new show! 
Hope to catch up with you all soon....
Take Care,
 
SanayaNOTE: THIS BLOG IS NOW CLOSED FOR COMMENTS! PLEASE CHECK A NEWER ENTRY TO POST COMMENTS!
Posted in: Work
Monsoon Memories
Comment: 300   View: 15186
				20 June 2011 at 12:00am
			
 Hey
guys,
 
Hope
all of you are enjoying the rain as much as I have been   Both Sanaya and
I love the rain and have had some great memories both on screen as well as off
screen in the last two years.  This
monsoon season Sanaya is busy shooting for her new show and so we definitely
are missing eachother's company.  
 
Some
of our most romantic rain memories are from the times we h ave spent sitting on
my balcony and sipping a hot coffee along with delicious brownies.  Just a few days back, Sanaya and I sat
on the same window and celebrated the beginning of her new show.  She was surprised when I had her cut a
cake but she did have a complaint that after a long time I had given her such a
sweet surprise. 
 
Its
not only during the rain but our coffee addiction is consistent across all
seasons.  Both Sanaya and I love
having a cup of coffee together and many times we drive down to a coffee shop
in town called Coffee Beans and Tea Leafs.  We are so fond of that cafeteria that we have a fixed table and
choice of coffee.  Sanaya always gets
the caramel latte and since I am a little calorie conscious I opt for black
coffee (which Sanaya can't stand at all). 
 
The
most memorable rain memory for me is from the days of Miley Jab Hum Tum when
artificial rain was created for a  dance sequence. 
Mischief was on my mind and so when the camera was not rolling, I would
start the rain tap and lift Sanaya into the rain.  She did get a little irritated but we both enjoyed getting
drenched.  
 
Apart
from the coffee sips and mischief, I miss playing soccer and cycling in the
rain.  These were my childhood
adventures which I am hoping to practice very soon.  I hope in this rainy season you all are enjoying yourselves
outdoors as well as indoors watching Sanaya's show and liking it as much as I
am. 
 
I
apologize for not getting time to reply to all your comments but its really a
pleasure reading all your comments. 
 
Love,
MohitNOTE: THIS BLOG IS NOW CLOSED FOR COMMENTS! PLEASE CHECK A NEWER ENTRY TO POST COMMENTS!
Posted in: Memories
Reaching Out Through Video Blog...
Comment: 617   View: 30650
				17 May 2011 at 12:00am
			
NOTE: THIS BLOG IS NOW CLOSED FOR COMMENTS! PLEASE CHECK A NEWER ENTRY TO POST COMMENTS!
Posted in: Fun
Thank You...
Comment: 270   View: 23924
				05 May 2011 at 12:00am
			
Hey,Sanaya: I really want to thank all our fans for the amazing
response!  Our blog had been long
overdue and we still have gotten such a warm welcome, which is very
touching!  I especially want to
mention the VM made by PrincessYashika1 as we both really loved it.  Thank you so very much everyone! 
Mohit: Thank you everyone for the amazing response!  We both are not doing a show together
right now but we hope that you all keep showering love on us.  I will be back soon on tv and I am
being selective about my upcoming role as I don't want to disappoint you
all.  And yes you won't be seeing a
golu molu Mohit as I have become a fitness freak!
I also want to mention PrincessYashika1's VM as both Sanaya
and I were so touched watching it ! 
Aso I know a lot of you are asking me to show you Sanaya's sketch that I
have made. She's given me a dhamki  and so I will have to take her permission to
reveal it .  If I'm able to convince
her, I will surely share it with you all. Its very sweet of all our fans to
have taking time out to write to us on our blog and we really hope to keep in
touch with you through our official blog. 
   Love,Mohit & SanayaNOTE: THIS BLOG IS NOW CLOSED FOR COMMENTS! PLEASE CHECK A NEWER ENTRY TO POST COMMENTS!
Posted in: Miscellaneous
About Us
					Welcome to our Official Blog! You loved us together and we started sharing a special connection with you all from our Miley Jab Hum Tum days! To make our bond with you even stronger we are here to connect with you guys on our official blog! Stay tuned...
					
Category
Work
Memories
Travel
Fun
Miscellaneous
Gallery
Archives
April 2011
May 2011
June 2011
July 2011
Brand N Buzz
Cyberax
 
