Jagran Blogs
Quicklinks:
                        Photo Gallery,
                                    Videos,
                                    Jagran.com
Find us on:
Home
Nation
Politics
Crime
General News
Photo Gallery
World
Asia
Africa
Europe and America
Middle East and Others
Photo Gallery
States
North
South
East
West
Business
Economy
World
Companies and Products
IT and Market
Gold Price
Sensex
Sports
Cricket
Cricket World Cup
IPL-4 2011
Sportsperson
Other Sports
Photo Gallery
India Vs West Indies
India vs England
Entertainment
Movie Review
Photo Gallery
Lifestyle
Special
Editorial
Blogs
Champions League 2011
Home » 
Special News » 
Blogs
Search
Premium Stories
Time for Strict Action
The wounds inflicted by 3 “TV Tigers”
Beginning of Stringent Action
Be Cautious with Strangers
Blogs
Time for Strict Action
Blast which took place in Delhi High Court first and then after a week  in a private hospital in Agra resulted in cries of help, chaos all  around, bodies lying scattered, some condolences and the age-old  practice of compensation announcements. A low intensity blast had hit  Delhi High Court in May as well.
                                Tags:
                                Latest on Delhi blast, Blast in Agra hospital, Nishi Kant Thakur blog, Jagran blogs
                                Posted on: 21 Sep 2011, 05:55 PM
The wounds inflicted by 3 “TV Tigers”
A large part of the blame for the loss of image of the United  Progressive Alliance (UPA) Government and its pathetic plight during  Anna Hazare’s stir against corruption must be laid at the door of a  brigade of lawyers turned politicians cum television bite-givers who  arrogantly betrayed their disrespect for democratic norms and provoked  nation-wide anger.
                                Tags:
                                A Surya Prakash, wounds inflicted by three “television tigers”, television tigers, TV Tigers Kapil Sibal, P Chidambaram and Manish Tiwari, United
Progressive Alliance UPA Government, UPA Government, Anna Hazare’s stir against corruption, Anna Hazre
                                Posted on: 20 Sep 2011, 01:05 PM
Beginning of Stringent Action
The state of Bihar, which was synonymous with corruption till recently,  is now setting examples in taking effective measures to curb the menace.  The new benchmark of the fight against graft in the state is an example  of how an administrator with grit and determination willing to serve  people, could bring the much desired change amidst all odds.
                                Tags:
                                Latest on IAS officer property, IAS officer property confiscated, Nishikant Thakur Blog, Jagran Blog, Bihar CM Nitish Kumar
                                Posted on: 15 Sep 2011, 03:24 PM
Be Cautious with Strangers
The cases of railway passengers aboard trains being fleeced by  miscreants after drugging them have been a common practice across the  country.  While people lose their valuables at the hands of such  anti-social elements, in certain incidents some lives are also lost in  resistance.
                                Tags:
                                Latest on railway security, Nishi Kant Thakur blog, land disputes, blogs on Jagran
                                Posted on: 15 Sep 2011, 03:23 PM
The Dilemma of a Liberal Hindu
I was born a Hindu and had a normal middle class upbringing. I went to  an English medium school which gave me a modern education. Both my  grandfathers belonged to the Arya Samaj, a reformist sect of Hinduism.  My father, however, took a different path.
                                Tags:
                                Gurcharan Das, the Dilemma of a Liberal Hindu, Arya Samaj, reformist sect of Hinduism, bhakti and Sufi traditions, Kabir, Nanak, Rumi, Mirabai, Bulleh Shah
                                Posted on: 14 Sep 2011, 04:55 PM
Peril of Politics
In view of a case of murder, Haryana Tourism and Transport Minister Om Prakash Jain and Chief Parliamentary Secretary Jile Ram  Sharma had to step down from their posts respectively.
                                Tags:
                                Nishikant Thakur, Harayana minister charged with murder, Politics replete with scams and scandals
                                Posted on: 14 Sep 2011, 04:48 PM
Truth about freedom of expression
The country is shell-shocked with the murder of Jyotirmay Dey, a scribe  who had deep knowledge of underworld activities because he, being an  investigative journalist, attached more priority to his professional  values and social responsibility than his life. The more shocking thing  for the common people who underline the importance of media world and  Right to Expression is that there is no concrete law to safeguard  journalists, even after six decades of Indian Independence elapsed.
                                Tags:
                                Nishikant Thakur, Truth about freedom of expression, murder of Jyotirmay Dey, media world and Right to Expression, law to safeguard journalist, Chhota Shakeel gang
                                Posted on: 14 Sep 2011, 04:46 PM
Need to promote talents
In the biggest sports events held in the country or abroad during recent  years, the performance of players hailing from Haryana has been a  matter of pride for the country. 
                                Tags:
                                Nishikant Thakur, Haryana players, Performance of Haryana players in games, boasting talents of players
                                Posted on: 14 Sep 2011, 04:43 PM
Need for Stern Action
Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar took over the reins of the state when  it was going through a difficult phase. Bihar had become synonymous with  a lawless state. No law and order had become the order of the day.  Hopelessness percolated in minds of the people as they could not foresee  any chance of economic development.
                                Tags:
                                Latest on Bihar, Latest on Forbesganj Incident, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, Forbesganj Firing Incident, Police Firing in Forbesganj
                                Posted on: 14 Sep 2011, 04:42 PM
Question over political responsibility
Many states including Punjab and Uttar Pradesh are getting ready for  upcoming elections which may be held next year. Before the Election  Commission clamps morale code of conduct, the political leaders seem to  be struggling for grabbing more seats. In a bid to woo voters, they have  announced poll sops and work has started on many projects which were  left midway.
                                Tags:
                                Nishikant Thakur, Political responsibility, Punjab and UP to go to poll, Leaders scrambling for more seats
                                Posted on: 14 Sep 2011, 04:28 PM
1 |2 |3 |4 |5 |6 |7 |8 |9 |10
                                | 
                                    Next
                                  
                                    >>
                                
A D V E R T I S E M E N T
Top News
Latest News
Bird flu marks entry in West Bengal
Brick kilns to be shifted for war planes
Sajjan criticises MP CM’s China visit
Smart card to ameliorate traffic woes
Way paved for mining in 200 coal blocks
One-year long celebration for Malaviya
AIIMS invents drug to treat Alzheimer’s
MCD to issue health norms soon
BCB director questions Shakib's axing
Gayle uncertain about his future in WI
Japan Open: Saina, Kashyap in 2nd round
Ruhunu keep CLT20 semis chances alive
Armando faces opposition in extension
400 foreign tourists stranded in Sikkim 
Bird flu marks entry in West Bengal
HI lift 2 years ban on Sandeep, Sardara
Most Read
Most Commented
Nationwide ban on gutka products soon 
Noida land row: Allahabad High Court to start..
Quake toll climbs to 72; landslides, rains..
CLT20: KKR beat Auckland Aces by 2 runs
Additional construction at Commonwealth Games..
Ashamed to buy condom in public, purchase..
Graduates with minimum 45 percent marks..
MPs 'not ready' for social audit of MPLADS:..
Congress, BJP engrossed in tug-of-war over..
Railways parcel management to go online 
A D V E R T I S E M E N T
Latest News
2G scam: CVC receives more complaints
Some other IPL team will take me: Murali
Lahiri aims for double at Panasonic Open
Keep control on terrorists: US to Pak
Sensex up by 48 points in opening trade
Emma Watson prefers natural look
My kids will be in showbiz: Spears
India will soon be No. 1 again: Murali
Nielsen steps down as Australia coach
Gayle uncertain about his future in WI
Gadkari to placate Kalyan for UP polls
T&T win toss, elect to bat against Foxes
Alam and Co to decide on Pakistan coach
Sam Pitroda to help modernise Railways
Malaysia, India to counter terrorism: PM
India lacks quake preparedness: Experts
No setback in War Room leak case: CBI
Apples, pears reduce risk of stroke
MCD to issue health norms soon
Blast samples yet to reach forensic lab
750 MPs bought confiscated arms: RTI
Rabbani murder a senseless act:Obama
President asks Naxals to shun violence
Cheryl Cole has crush on Cameron Diaz!
Libyan fighters capture town near Sirte
Baba Ramdev praises UP CM Mayawati
Bhardwaj, Devgan team up for comedy
Somerset face KKR as underdogs: Thomas
Shocks have shaken financial system: IMF
Government lifts ban on onion export
Nation: National News
State: North |   South |   East |   West
Business: Economy |  World | Companies and Products |  IT and Market
Entertainment: Entertainment
World: Asia |   Africa |   Europe and America |   Middle East and Others 
Sports: Cricket |   Cricket World Cup |   Other Sports
Specials: Jagran Editorial | Jagran Blogs
Lifestyle: Lifestyle
Home | About us |  Advertise with Us |   Contact us
Site map |  Privacy Policy | Terms & Conditions
Copyright Info |   All Rights Reserved 
 
