Brick kilns, chimneys near Maharajpura Air Force Station to be shifted for security of aircrafts
Quicklinks:
                        Photo Gallery,
                                    Videos,
                                    Jagran.com
Find us on:
Home
Nation
Politics
Crime
General News
Photo Gallery
World
Asia
Africa
Europe and America
Middle East and Others
Photo Gallery
States
North
South
East
West
Business
Economy
World
Companies and Products
IT and Market
Gold Price
Sensex
Sports
Cricket
Cricket World Cup
IPL-4 2011
Sportsperson
Other Sports
Photo Gallery
India Vs West Indies
India vs England
Entertainment
Movie Review
Photo Gallery
Lifestyle
Special
Editorial
Blogs
Champions League 2011
Home » 
Indian States News » 
Brick kilns, chimneys near Maharajpura Air Force Station to be shifted for security of aircrafts
Search
Brick kilns, chimneys near Maharajpura Air Force Station to be shifted for security of aircrafts
Posted on: 21 Sep 2011, 08:33 PM
« Previous
Next »
Loading image. Please wait
Brick kilns to be shifted for war planes
Brick kilns to be shifted for war planes
 
Gwalior: The Gwalior district administration has finally woken up to the long pending request of Maharajpura Air Force Station authorities to shift the brick kilns and chimneys from the vicinity, as they were posing a major problem for the aircrafts. The Air Force station had informed the district administration about the problems faced by the war planes due to the brickyards in the surroundings. They were posing difficulty for aircrafts to fly low in the area. Moreover, the ash released from the chimneys was also a matter of concern for the station.After the Air Force brought the issue to the notice of the District Magistrate many a times, the DM Akaash Tripathi decided to shift the brick kilns and chimneys at a distance of more than nine kilometers from the air force station. He has directed the SDM Gwalior to organise a survey in the area and provide a report on the number of brick kilns and chimneys functional in the area. The process of their removal will be carried out thereafter. The Air Force station has also been raising the issue related to the presence of stone mines and crushers in the area. The explosions in the stone mines have an adverse effect on the flight of the war planes. However, the issue yet remains to be addressed by the district administration. (JPN/Bureau)
« Previous
Next »
                Tags:
                Brick kilns and chimneys near Maharajpura Air Force Station, Brick kilns to be shifted for war planes in Gwalior, brick kilns to be removed for Air Force station in Gwalior
Related Articles:
'Pak aircraft seen flying near Indian air space' - Date Posted: 19/01/11
Entire US stealth aircraft fleet grounded: Report - Date Posted: 10/08/11
322 Air Warriors inducted into Indian Air Force - Date Posted: 01/07/11
Govt for rapid modernization of armed forces - Date Posted: 09/02/11
Pakistan railway station under construction near Zero Line - Date Posted: 06/09/11
IAF inducts US super aircraft - Date Posted: 05/02/11
Pakistan Air Force airbase witnesses blasts and firing  - Date Posted: 23/05/11
IAF installs US-made aircraft in transport fleet  - Date Posted: 06/02/11
Special security force to counter terrorism and Naxalism - Date Posted: 15/07/11
Officials assessing property loss in Faridabad air crash  - Date Posted: 26/05/11
Post Comment
*Name : 
  
*Email ID : 
 
 (Your Email address will not be displayed) 
Type your comment here...
Top News
Latest News
Bird flu marks entry in West Bengal
Brick kilns to be shifted for war planes
Sajjan criticises MP CM’s China visit
Smart card to ameliorate traffic woes
Way paved for mining in 200 coal blocks
One-year long celebration for Malaviya
AIIMS invents drug to treat Alzheimer’s
MCD to issue health norms soon
BCB director questions Shakib's axing
Gayle uncertain about his future in WI
Japan Open: Saina, Kashyap in 2nd round
Ruhunu keep CLT20 semis chances alive
Armando faces opposition in extension
400 foreign tourists stranded in Sikkim 
Bird flu marks entry in West Bengal
HI lift 2 years ban on Sandeep, Sardara
Most Read
Most Commented
Nationwide ban on gutka products soon 
Noida land row: Allahabad High Court to start..
Quake toll climbs to 72; landslides, rains..
CLT20: KKR beat Auckland Aces by 2 runs
Additional construction at Commonwealth Games..
Ashamed to buy condom in public, purchase..
Graduates with minimum 45 percent marks..
MPs 'not ready' for social audit of MPLADS:..
Congress, BJP engrossed in tug-of-war over..
Railways parcel management to go online 
Nation: National News
State: North |   South |   East |   West
Business: Economy |  World | Companies and Products |  IT and Market
Entertainment: Entertainment
World: Asia |   Africa |   Europe and America |   Middle East and Others 
Sports: Cricket |   Cricket World Cup |   Other Sports
Specials: Jagran Editorial | Jagran Blogs
Lifestyle: Lifestyle
Home | About us |  Advertise with Us |   Contact us
Site map |  Privacy Policy | Terms & Conditions
Copyright Info |   All Rights Reserved 
 
