Bollywood mourns Sikkim earthquake victims
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                News...            
           
 Wednesday, 21 September, 2011
Register
Log in
Bookmark
Advertise
Newsletters
RSS
SMS Alerts
 
 
 
Breaking News:
'Tere Naam 2' is up ahead
Deepika and Ranbir ready to romance again
Madhuri Dixit reveals her relocation plan
Amitabh Bachchan's prank leads to 'nightmares'
"Nargis is a boon to our film"
This week in Bollywood:
Happy Birthday, Kareena Kapoor!
On the Celeb Track
T'town at the Blender's Pride Fashion Shows
Bipasha Basu's salon time
Star Spotting
 
Breaking News
 Print this		   	  	 |
  	  	    Email this		   	  	 |
         
Subscribe to SMS Alerts !
Bollywood mourns Sikkim earthquake victims	
                Next Breaking News: Anil Kapoor joins the fight against human trafficking »
                
					Big B, Abhishek and KJo pray for those affected by the disaster                
Abhishek Bachchan
 
        picture: Getty Images         
Amitabh Bachchan, Karan Johar and Rahul Bose are among the Bollywood stars who have mourned the loss of lives in Sikkim, which was hit by a powerful earthquake that left at least 23 people dead and 200 injured.The earthquake Sunday (September 18) evening, which originated along the border of the hilly northeastern state with Nepal, has claimed at least 35 lives. Bollywood celebrities took to Twitter to share their feelings.  Amitabh Bachchan: An earthquake in Sikkim! Many regions felt the shake, right across the eastern region and up beyond Bihar and Uttar Pradesh... pray all is well! Blasts! Horrid floods in Orissa! Earthquakes all over the country! The elements are annoyed with us... prayers for all to be safe.Abhishek Bachchan: "Very sad to see the state of the people affected by the earthquake in Sikkim. Thoughts and prayers for all of them."Karan Johar: Thoughts and prayers to the families of the quake victims... truly saddened by all the news reports.Riteish Deshmukh: Prayers with the people of the earthquake affected area for their safety and well being.Rahul Bose: Terrible news about the quake. Am trying to get through to friends in Sikkim with no luck. Praying for minimum loss and damage.Sophie Choudry: Thoughts and prayers with all those affected by the earthquake in Sikkim and Nepal. We are as always helpless in front of mother nature.Tisca Chopra: Prayers for all in Sikkim, Bengal, Bihar and other affected areas.Kabir Bedi: My heart is with all victims of the Sikkim Quake. But why have media have forgotten about devastating Orissa floods so soon?Shruti Seth: My love and prayers to all the victims of the Sikkim earthquake. May you all find strength to recover from this horrific incident.
		Abhishek Bachchan Related Articles & Photos
    
			  Breaking News  
              
				  September 20,2011              
				  How Ash made 'scarred' Abhi feel better              
				  Plus, who was horrified to see him post his accident?                  
                      Read it...
                  
			  Breaking News  
              
				  September 17,2011              
				  "Abhishek is better"              
				  Big B has an update on Bachchan Junior, post his accident                  
                      Read it...
                  
			  Breaking News  
              
				  September 15,2011              
				  Abhishek Bachchan hurt in accident              
				  He was rushed into surgery after injuring his eye in Jaipur                  
                      Read it...
                  
			  Breaking News  
              
				  September 5,2011              
				  It's Abhishek's special day today              
				  Jr. B shares why September 5 is one of the most eventful days of his life                  
                      Read it...
                  
			  Breaking News  
              
				  August 28,2011              
				  Bollywood hails Anna Hazare's victory              
				  Activist ends fast, stars call it 'a moment of great pride' for Inidia                  
                      Read it...
                  
			  Breaking News  
              
				  August 3,2011              
				  Revealed: Your Favourite Masala! Covers              
				  Check out the Top 10 so far, as voted for by YOU!                  
                      Read it...
                  
			  Breaking News  
              
				  July 31,2011              
				  Abhishek wants paternity leave              
				  'Dhoom 3' delayed as he asks for family time with Aishwarya                  
                      Read it...
                  
			  Breaking News  
              
				  July 23,2011              
				  Break time for ‘Players’ team              
				  Here’s how Abhishek and Bips got an unscheduled holiday                  
                      Read it...
                  
                    Abhishek Bachchan Photos
                    Abhishek Bachchan attended the music launch of the film, produced by his friend Apoorva Lakhia                    
                          See it...
                    
                    Abhishek Bachchan Photos
                    Aishwarya Rai and Abhishek Bachchan at the celebration                    
                          See it...
                    
                    Abhishek Bachchan Photos
                          See it...
                    
                    Abhishek Bachchan Photos
                          See it...
                    
 Access  Abhishek Bachchan profile  or 
 view all Abhishek Bachchan stories
 Comments 
No Comments
Post your Comment
                        All posts are sent to the administrator for review and are published only after
                        approval. Ahlan Masala reserves the right to remove any comment at any time for any reason.
                        Please keep your responses appropriate and on topic.
					
Name *
 
                    Remember me on this computer
Email *
(Your email address will not be published)
City
 
Country
 
Subject *
                    Comment * 
Notify me of further comments
									Enter the words above *
Please click post only once - your comment will not be published  immediately. 
		More Breaking News		
'Tere Naam 2' is up ahead
Deepika and Ranbir ready to romance again
Madhuri Dixit reveals her relocation plan
Amitabh Bachchan's prank leads to 'nightmares'
"Nargis is a boon to our film"
More Breaking News »
 
 
Dubai Diaries
                 
                
            
More Dubai Diaries»
 
Most Read Today
Most Read!
						
                        T'town at the Blender's Pride Fashion Shows                    
We got up close with star showstoppers Anushka, Minissha and Sameera in Delhi!
2 Happy Birthday, Kareena Kapoor!
					Catch the star in her different gorgeous avatars in our special gallery                
3 Bipasha Basu's salon time
					See a whole new side of Bips with celeb hairstylist Sapna Bhavnani                
4 How Ash made 'scarred' Abhi feel better
					Plus, who was horrified to see him post his accident?                
5 On the Celeb Track
					Deepika’s model manner, Big B’s ‘Delhi Eye’ connection and lots more                
 
News
Photos
Going Out
Star Style
Health & Beauty
Celebs
Competitions
Privacy Policy
Contact Us
Visit Our Sister Sites:
ArabianBusiness.com
ArabianBusiness.com/Arabic
ArabianBusiness.com/Markets
ArabianBusiness.com/Jobs
ArabianBusiness.com/Property
Ahlan! Live
Masala.com
Best In Dubai
Best In Abu Dhabi
Car Middle East
Harpers Bazaar Arabia
ITP.net
TimeOutDubai.com
TimeOutAbuDhabi.com
TimeOutBahrain.com
 TimeOutTickets.com
Ahlan.ae
Grazia.ae
VivaMagazine.ae
ITP.com
ConstructionWeekDirectory
		Published by & © 2011 ITP Digital Ltd. All Rights Reserved.		
 
