  Sikkim earthquake toll rises to 25 killed as help battles adverse weather - Frontier India News
 
      Sikkim earthquake toll rises to 25 killed as help battles adverse weather    
    By    Shami J    |
    September 19th, 2011    |
    Category:    Assam, Bihar, Delhi, Jharkhand, Maharashtra, Meghalaya, Punjab, Rajasthan, Sikkim, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal    | 
    No Comments » 
The earthquake that hit India and Nepal with the epicenter in Sikkim has taken a toll of 9 lives in Sikkim, 4 in West Bengal, 7 in Bihar and 5 in Nepal. Around 100 people are reported to be injured. Tremors have been reported from the states of Assam, Meghalaya, Tripura, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Chandigarh, Delhi and Maharashtra. Indian Army has reported the death of two Army soldiers and damage to three army vehicles in North Sikkim. Army which was searching for three army vehicles including one with army personnel which went missing has been found safe. Many tall buildings have developed cracks in Gangtok and Darjeeling.
Rescue and search operations are being hampered due to the remoteness of the location. Indian government has hesitated and is slow in constructing roads along this areas as it borders China. Two IAF Aircraft from Hindon and one Aircraft each from Palam and Kolkata have been dispatched to Bagdogra with personnel of National Disaster Rescue Force (NDRF). Two of the aricrafts are the newly acquired C-130 Hercules. The NDRF teams have been taken from Bagdogra to Gangtok by road which is being facilitated by Border Security Force and West Bengal Government. A high level crisis management committee met yesterday night in New Delhi and has taken the stock of the Sikkim Earthquake Epicenterevent. Cabinet Secretary Ajit Seth, who is heading the committee said that the NDRF rescue teams that have been sent have 40 members each and are expert rescuers.
There have been reports that several roads have been blocked at many places in Sikkim due to landslides. Rain has been hampering the work too. The communication links have been snapped as the mobile towers have got damaged. Gangtok and several other areas were in darkness in the night as a result of major power failures. 
Sikkim government has requested Army’s help to reach help to the affected, state Chief Secretary Karma Gyatso said. The army medical teams are already on the China border to provide medical aid to the villagers and instill confidence. The Indo-Tibetan Border Police has said that they have begun search and rescue operations in Pegong area of north Sikkim and rescued about 200 villagers and 22 tourists. Two ITBP buildings  have collapsed. A total of 50 battalions of the Army, ITBP and BRF have been deployed already. Indian Army has deployed its field ambulances as well. The 9th NDRF battalion based in Bihta, Bihar is also gearing up for relief work in Sikkim. 
Story by:  Shami J  on September 19, 2011. ( Email frontierindia@gmail.com to contact the author.)
 
  Leave Comment
    Name    (required)    
    Mail (will not be published)    (required)    
    Website    
 
  Latest News 
Steelbird introduces India’s first Flip-off Helmet
Fiat India launches special festive offers for Linea and Punto
Bosch range of Home applaince products launched in India
MindTree Unveils SecureMind Surveillance Manager on Iomega StorCenter
Communist oppose Bill for Nuclear Safety Authority
 Defence NewsIndian Navy inducts feed water barge Pulakesin-11st Peace Eye AEW&C Aircraft delivered to Republic of Korea Air ForceDCNS conducts further sea trials with BPC DixmudeAdvanced version of Pilotless target aircraft Lakshya test flown‘Op Trishakti Madad’ –  Army mounts mammoth SAR operations in Sikkim and West Bengal Entertainment NewsReliving the golden years with ‘Dev Anand’First Time Debutante Directors Clash on ScreenPhineas & Ferb Across the 2nd Dimension on Disney IndiaRatan Rajput’s Tryst with DestinyIndian Television Premiere of ‘The Other Guys’ on Pix OpinionWe Choose to be BlindMaking choicesMass Movement and Lessons LearnedIndia erupts peacefullyFeedback Blocade – Self ImposedLatest Commentssaurabh on DRDO launches ‘Lukoskin’ herbal care product for leucodermianalin chandra on DRDO launches ‘Lukoskin’ herbal care product for leucodermiasacheta pandey on DRDO launches ‘Lukoskin’ herbal care product for leucodermiaC sharma on DRDO launches ‘Lukoskin’ herbal care product for leucodermiaAshish Bhatnagar on DRDO launches ‘Lukoskin’ herbal care product for leucodermia
Home
 About
 Advertising
 Terms
Contact
 © 2011 
    Frontier India News    | 
Log in | 
    Register |	46 queries. 0.429 seconds.
  
