Seven killed in Tibet in Sikkim earthquake - Tibetan Review
Wednesday, 21 September 2011
Advertisements
Site search: 
		
 
Contents (Titles 1967-2009)TR SampleAbout UsSubscribeContactPayments to TRLinks
Seven killed in Tibet in Sikkim earthquake
(TibetanReview.net, Sep20, 2011) The 6.8-6.9-magnitude earthquake which, with its epicentre in Sikkim, hit north and east India, as well as neigbouring countries, on Sep 18 evening killed at least seven Tibetans in the border area of Yadong (also written as Yatung or referred to as Dromo) in Tibet’s Shigatse Prefecture, according to China’s official Xinhua news agency Sep 19. It said 22 others were injured. India’s PTI news agency reported Sep 19 that a total of to 66 had been confirmed killed by the earthquake, with 39 from Sikkim.
Xinhua said the earthquake had caused hundreds of landslides that disrupted traffic, power and water supplies, as well as telecommunications in Yadong County, which is 40 km away from Sikkim. It added, however, that the road traffic to the county had resumed on Sep 19 morning. However, dozens of earthquake victims were reported to be seen wrapped in cotton quilts and camped on street, enduring rain and sleet, at that time.
The Galingang Village was reported to be one of the worst hit, with all the 156 houses in the village being damaged, leaving everyone homeless. Wang Changlin, rector of the Yadong County Middle School, had said the school had to stop classes on Sep 19, as all its 355 students were temporarily living in six tents.
The earthquake occurred at 6:11 PM local time (12:41 GMT) on the India-Nepal border, with the epicentre being located 68 km northwest of Sikkim's capital of Gangtok, at a depth of 19.7 km.
PTI said that in India, the quake had left a trail of devastation, damaging roads, buildings and other structures, uprooting mobile phone towers and snapping communication and power lines. The report’s overnight toll of the 66 dead included six in West Bengal and seven each in Bihar, Nepal and Tibet. Bangladesh was also reported to be hit. In addition, over a hundred people were reported to be injured.
The exile Tibetan parliament, which happened to be in session, mourned for the victims and sent a condolence message to Sikkim’s Chief Minister Pawan Kumar Chamling. The exile administration described the natural calamity as "tragic and sad". “Our hearts and prayers go out to all those who are undergoing very painful experiences in their community and family,” Tibet.net Sep 19 quoted Kalong Tripa Lobsang Sangay as saying.This page has been read 527 times.Last updated on Sep 20, 2011 09:54:15  
Copyright © 2007 - 2009 Tibetan Review
Website developed by Lateng Online
