BBC News - In pictures: Sichuan quake






       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




China



Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video


China
India























20 April 2013
Last updated at 10:52 ET

In pictures: Sichuan quake









Thousands have been injured and more than 150 killed by a 6.6-magnitude earthquake in China's Sichuan province.



The quake struck at 08:00, and flattened villages near the epicentre.



The government promised thousands of rescue workers would travel to the scene.



On Saturday morning, several stories of dramatic rescues had already emerged.



New Premier Li Keqiang (sitting, left) flew to Sichuan, saying the first 24 hours after a quake was the "golden time" for saving lives.



The government was heavily criticised for its response to the last major earthquake in Sichuan in 2008. This time their rescue efforts have been hampered by powerful aftershocks, landslides and blocked roads.



Some parts of the worst-affected areas remain without power, and water supplies have also been cut off.



In Lushan county, the situation remains an emergency, with injured people being treated in the open air.



Aerial footage has shown the extent of the devastation, and the magnitude of the task of rebuilding.





Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print













More galleries



            					
								Week in pictures
								


A selection of the best photos from the news



            					
								Boston operation
								


US police search for suspect in deadly Marathon bombing



            					
								Day in pictures
								


Twenty-four hours of news photos: 19 April 



            					
								Plant blast
								


Explosion at a fertiliser plant near Waco



            					
								Your pictures
								


Readers' photos on the theme migration



            					
								Watercolours
								


The Prince of Wales's watercolours 



            					
								Stick men
								


Stick-men cards by Hannah Ensor



            					
								Day in pictures
								


Twenty-four hours of news photos: 18 April



            					
								Thatcher's funeral
								


Funeral of former UK PM Baroness Thatcher



            					
								Suffragettes
								


London's Monument protest 100 years ago














Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action
Editorial Guidelines




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





