 More than 150 dead, 3,000 injured as quake hits China’s Sichuan - The Hindu















 Follow



 Today's Paper Archives Subscriptions RSS Feeds Site Map ePaper Mobile Social 










































SEARCH












Home News Opinion Business Sport S & T Features Books In-depth Jobs Classifieds IPL 


International 
South Asia World 

 




 News
» International




BEIJING,

April 20, 2013



More than 150 dead, 3,000 injured as quake hits China’s Sichuan





Ananth Krishnan



Share  ·   
Comment
  ·  
print
  ·   

T+  ·   T-
  
 

 

 


  



  







AP/Xinhua
Students gather outside their school buildings to avoid aftershocks of an earthquake, in Dazhou, southwest China's Sichuan Province on Saturday.






TOPICS
  World 
  China 

  natural disasters 
  earthquake 






At least 152 people have been killed and more than 3,000 injured as a 7.0-magnitude earthquake struck an area of China’s south-western Sichuan province on Saturday morning, with authorities fearing the number of casualties could continue to rise considering the impact of the earthquake which was felt in at least five provinces. 

The earthquake struck the city of Ya’an, in Lushan county, around 140 kilometres from the bustling provincial capital Chengdu, at 8.02 am local time (5.32 am IST). 

The official Xinhua news agency said, citing provincial authorities, that at least 152 people had been confirmed killed and at least 3,000 others injured as of 8.30 pm on Saturday night (6 pm IST), with the number expected to increase as relief work continues to clear rubble from collapsed buildings in Lushan’s towns and cities. 

More than 2,000 soldiers have already been dispatched to assist in recovery efforts, military sources told Xinhua. However, landslides had blocked access in several places and two barrier lakes caused by the earthquake were “posing risks for rescue efforts”, officials said. 

Reflecting the difficult conditions for rescue and recovery work, one rescue vehicle carrying 17 soldiers fell off a cliff on the way to the quake zone, State broadcaster China Central Television (CCTV) reported. One soldier died. 

The worst-hit areas were thought to be the rural townships of Baoxing, Taiping and Longmen, located in the suburbs of Ya’an. More than 400,000 people were thought to be affected by the earthquake. 

Chinese Premier Li Keqiang, who travelled to Lushan from Beijing on Saturday afternoon, called on rescuers to “grasp the first 24 hours after the earthquake, the golden time for saving lives”. 

The earthquake struck a part of the province not far from where a devastating 8.0-magnitude earthquake, five years ago, left at least 90,000 people dead or missing. The China Earthquake Administration (CEA) said the quake “originated in the Longmenshan fracture zone”, where 12 earthquakes of 5-magnitude or more have been reported since 1900. 

Saturday’s earthquake was "not expected to be as disastrous" as the 2008 earthquake, Pan Huaiwen, director of the China Earthquake Networks Center (CENC), told Xinhua. 

The 2008 earthquake reduced entire towns in Sichuan to rubble. The recovery process has been difficult, with the government pouring billions of dollars into reconstruction projects in towns and counties not far from where Saturday’s earthquake struck. 

The 2008 earthquake also resulted in the collapse of dozens of newly-built schools, resulting in the deaths of more than 5,000 children. The poor quality of construction of even newly-opened schools brought widespread criticism towards the government and subsequently triggered corruption investigations. 

The Ministry of Education said there were no reports of students killed on Saturday, looking to assuage public concerns about whether the tragedy of five years ago would again be repeated. 

The city of Ya'an was also badly affected by the 2008 earthquake, and, like surrounding towns and counties, was only beginning to turn the page over the last disaster when Saturday's earthquake struck. Tens of thousands of people were left homeless in Ya'an five years ago, according to Chinese media reports. 

The 7.0-magnitude earthquake struck the city at 8.02 am local time (5.32 am IST) with an epicenter of 13 km depth, according to Xinhua. The U.S. Geological Survey recorded the magnitude as 6.6, the Associated Press reported, with the 13 km depth seen as shallow enough to magnify the impact. 

The impact was powerful enough to rattle buildings in Chengdu, more than 140 km away, and to have been felt in surrounding provinces of Guizhou, Gansu, Shaanxi and Yunnan. A Chengdu resident told Xinhua his building shook for 20 seconds, and he saw “tiles fall off nearby buildings”. Xinhua said at least four major aftershocks were felt, the largest recorded as having a 5.3 magnitude. 

Photographs showed collapsed buildings and entire neighbourhoods in Ya'an reduced to rubble. Among the despair, officials had one story of hope: two hours after the earthquake, a baby was born, in perfectly healthy condition, in an ambulance in Ya’an after rescue workers had taken the mother to safety. 

Keywords: China quake, Sichuan province, Sichuan earthquake

 

 RELATED NEWS
 Rifts remain in quake-hit Sichuan   
More In: International | News | World 

 

 



  



  




 






Comments
Recommended
Post a comment


 Be the first one to post a comment

 



                                     











Your Name:
  

                                   
 


email:               

 
Make a comment 
 



 
characters left

 

	       



1.  Comments will be moderated


2.  Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.
3.  Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters,       or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text.       (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and'). 4.  We may remove hyperlinks within comments.
5.  Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.












































 






Most Popular
Most Commented




Dzhokhar Tsarnaev caught from Watertown resident's boat
 
 Indian-American falsely named as Boston suspect
 
Boston under siege; blasts suspect killed, brother on the run 
 
More than 150 dead, 3,000 injured as quake hits China’s Sichuan
 
Musharraf lashes out after arrest 
 
Obama vows to find out motive of Boston bombers
 
US officials say Boston suspects were Chechen brothers
 
Images of the week
 
Pyongyang says no to denuclearisation
 
 ‘Navy cadets of India, Sri Lanka speak the same language’
 


Inquest verdict: Savita’s death was a “medical misadventure”
 
Cannes fest will pay homage to Indian cinema
 
 ‘Navy cadets of India, Sri Lanka speak the same language’
 
Texas blast toll rises to 14
 
Obama vows to find out motive of Boston bombers
 
Dzhokhar Tsarnaev caught from Watertown resident's boat
 
Heavy clashes in Syria near Lebanon border 
 
 Indian-American falsely named as Boston suspect
 








Slideshow



Blasts in Boston


Three were killed. The explosions occurred several hours after a few of the marathon’s nearly 27,000 runners began crossing the finish line. 





more slideshows
»





























Today's Paper 
ePaper
This Day That Age
Crossword
Archives
Obituary







Group Sites
The Hindu
Business Line Sportstar
Images
Frontline












 OPEN


close
Recent Article in International

Inquest verdict: Savita’s death was a “medical misadventure” 	The jury in the inquest into the death of Savita Halappanavar, the Indian dentist who died in an Irish hospital following a miscarriage,... » 



 

The Hindu:

Home |

News |

Opinion |

Business |

Sport |

S & T |

Features |

Books |

In-depth |

Jobs |

Classifieds |

IPL |

The Site:
|
About Us |
Terms of Use |
Privacy Policy |
Contacts |
Archives |
Subscriptions |
RSS Feeds |
Site Map 
Group Sites: 
The Hindu |
Business Line |
Sportstar |
Frontline |
Publications |
eBooks |
Images |


 Comments to: web.thehindu@thehindu.co.in
 Copyright© 2013, The Hindu

 








 
 


