Improved quake response - Philly.com





Subscriber Services |
					|
					



































Home
News
Sports
Entertainment
Business
Food
Lifestyle
Health
Marketplace








 Collections•Disaster










We RecommendLandslides hamper quake relief effortsApril 23, 2013Quake in China kills at least 160April 21, 2013Find More Stories About DisasterSichuan




Improved quake responseMembers of a rescue team look for survivors in Baoxing county of Ya An, China. "The government's quick, organized response is very important," a doctor says. (FENG LI / Getty)GALLERY: Members of a rescue team look for survivors in Baoxing county… (FENG LI / Getty )


This time, China promptly deployed equipment and personnel to region.By Gillian Wong, Associated PressPosted: April 23, 2013LUSHAN, China - The tent village that sprang up in two days to house quake survivors in mountain-flanked Lushan is no ordinary refugee camp. China's full range of disaster response is on display: Trucks with X-ray equipment, phone-charging stations, bank tellers-on-wheels - even a tent for insurance claims.  The efforts under way Monday in mountainous Sichuan province after a quake Saturday that killed at least 188 people showed that the government has continued to hone its disaster reaction - long considered a crucial leadership test in China - since a much more devastating earthquake in 2008, also in Sichuan, and another one in 2010 in the western region of Yushu. "Lushan was so heavily hit and my family's house toppled. It has been such a disaster for us," said Yue Hejun, 28, as he waited to recharge his family's three mobile phones at a charging stall, volunteered by a communications company and coordinated by the government in a new addition to the arsenal of services after natural disasters. "If we can charge our phones, we are at least able to keep in touch with our family members outside and that helps to set our minds at ease." At a mini-clinic with two green cots in the open air and a small tent for doctors to sleep, a doctor said the government has learned the importance of fast coordination since the Yushu quake, which killed more than 2,600 people. Much of the initial relief in that disaster came from Buddhist monks and other volunteers, partly because of the remoteness of much of the affected areas. "After 24 hours or 48 hours in Yushu, things were not so orderly or settled in," said the doctor, who like many government officials would give only her surname, Luo. "The government's quick, organized response is very important. It's no use to blindly come here and try to save people." Helicopters have been an obvious presence in the latest rescue efforts, used to reach outlying communities, unlike in 2008 when bad weather hampered their use in the critical first 36 hours. This time, better use of helicopters for reconnaissance - with remote sensing technology - and for the distribution of aid has allowed help to get out more quickly to where it is needed, said Teng Wuxiao, director of the Institute of Urban Public Security at Fudan University in Shanghai. Still, complaints were common among the survivors of the latest quake, especially in the more hard-to-reach areas. Huang Mingxian, 47, who was camped out with seven family members in a government-issued blue tent in a small public square, said the government's efforts were appreciated but that supplies were not always distributed fairly. "This morning is the first time in three days that we have gotten instant noodles," Huang said, waving a pair of long chopsticks she was using to stir the noodles in a wok over a gas canister-powered mobile stove. "Other areas have electricity and water, what about us?"


FEATURED ARTICLESToomey: 'I gave this my best shot'Carnival Cruise prices down 20%Karen Heller: A T-shirt celebrates Philly's rudenessMore:Sobering realities of Parkinson'sInside the Sixers: Ex-coaches want no part of the 76ersHow area hospitals rateLess is more with Michael Mosley's 5:2 dietLawyer, judge erupt in anger in Gosnell trialEagles GM says team has narrowed draft optionsIndex by Keyword|Index by Date|About Philly.com|Contact Us|Terms of Use & Privacy Statement|Copyright 2013






















