 ‘Left-behind’ children bear brunt of quake - The Hindu















 Follow



 Today's Paper Archives Subscriptions RSS Feeds Site Map ePaper Mobile Social 










































SEARCH












Home News Opinion Business Sport S & T Features Books In-depth Jobs Classifieds IPL 


International 
South Asia World 

 




 International
» World




BEIJING,

April 23, 2013



‘Left-behind’ children bear brunt of quake





Ananth Krishnan



Share  ·   
Comment
  ·  
print
  ·   

T+  ·   T-
  
 

 

 


  



  








 



AP
In this April 21, 2013 photo, a child sits at a makeshift tent in front of homes destroyed by the earthquake in Longmen village in Lushan county of southwest China's Sichuan province.  
 



AP
In this April 21, 2013 photo children hold up a banner which reads "No water, No place to stay, Thank You Help" along a roadside in the quake-ravaged county of Lushan in southwestern China's Sichuan province.
 
  

 



TOPICS
  World 
  China 

  natural disasters 
  earthquake 






Chen Fuzhen was bathing her infant son when the earthquake struck Longmen early on Saturday morning.


The 31-year-old mother grabbed her baby and 11-year-old daughter and rushed down the stairs of her two-floor house. Ms. Chen made it out of the front door just in time — she watched her home and her life’s belongings come crashing down.


Dozens of others in Longmen, one of the counties worst affected by the 7.0-magnitude earthquake that struck Sichuan province, were not as lucky. Many lost their lives as more than 5,000 of the 7,000 homes there collapsed.


Ms. Chen’s husband, like most men in predominantly rural Longmen, is not employed in Sichuan, a province which is China’s biggest exporter of labour. Tens of thousands from Sichuan move to Guangdong and other provinces in the southern manufacturing heartland to power Chinese industry.


Most homes in Longmen are occupied only by women, children and the elderly. It is also not uncommon in many Chinese villages for both parents to migrate in search of work, leaving grandparents to look after their “left-behind children”, as they are known.


A whole generation of “left-behind children” has grown up in rural China without their parents because of household registration rules, which restrict access to education and healthcare for migrant workers who leave their home towns. Staying behind means the children can receive nine years of free education as well as access to local hospitals.


The earthquake, Chinese media reports say, has been particularly devastating because of its impact on the elderly and young children, who have had to cope with the disaster with little help.


In the village of Gucheng, in Longmen, there are as many as 160 left-behind children, The China Daily reported. The numbers were likely to be higher in other towns.


“If the men were at home when the earthquake happened, maybe more people would have been saved or uninjured,” Zhang Qingqiu (31), mother of a nine-month-old, told the newspaper, which also reported Chen Fuzhen’s story. Ms. Chen’s husband was employed in the booming municipality of Chongqing, which lies a few hundred km east of Longmen and was carved out of Sichuan province 15 years ago.


Ms. Zhang recounted how a 12-year-old girl was seriously hurt when she tried to save her two-year-old brother, who she looked after because her parents were employed in another province and her grandparents were away from home. “They wouldn’t have to suffer the pain if parents were at home,” Ms. Zhang said.


Teachers at the Longmen primary school were quoted as saying there were dozens of “left-behind” students who will have to deal with the quake’s aftermath on their own.


How rescue workers will provide for hundreds of these children is just one among the many challenges in the recovery process.


As of Monday, at least 192 people were reported to have died in the earthquake, with 23 missing. At least 11,470 were injured, among whom 968 were in a serious condition.


Local officials have expressed concerns about a shortage of food, tents, and other supplies, with landslips and narrow mountain roads limiting access to Longmen, Baoxing and other counties. More than 2,000 aftershocks have been reported since Saturday. Light rain on Monday, expected to continue for another two days, has further slowed down recovery work, officials said.


More than 19,000 soldiers have been dispatched to quake-hit areas to continue the search for survivors and to resettle 24,000 people, the official Xinhua news agency reported, while the government has announced a $ 1 billion Yuan ($ 161 million) relief fund.


Keywords: China quake survivors, Sichuan earthquake, child quake survivors

 

 RELATED NEWS
 Weather, a major challenge in China   Pandas in quake-hit reserve unharmed   157 dead in Sichuan earthquake  
More In: World | International | News 

 

 



  



  




 






Comments
Recommended
Post a comment


 Be the first one to post a comment

 



                                     











Your Name:
  

                                   
 


email:               

 
Make a comment 
 



 
characters left

 

	       



1.  Comments will be moderated


2.  Comments that are abusive, personal, incendiary or irrelevant cannot be published.
3.  Please write complete sentences. Do not type comments in all capital letters,       or in all lower case letters, or using abbreviated text.       (example: u cannot substitute for you, d is not 'the', n is not 'and'). 4.  We may remove hyperlinks within comments.
5.  Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name, to avoid rejection.













































Slideshow



Blasts in Boston


Three were killed. The explosions occurred several hours after a few of the marathon’s nearly 27,000 runners began crossing the finish line. 





more slideshows
»








Slideshow



Margaret Thatcher (1925-2013)


Known as the "Iron Lady", Baroness Margaret Thatcher (87) died on April 8, 2013. A compilation of pictures....






more slideshows
»








Most Popular
Most Commented




Sunil Tripathi’s body found?
 
Boston bombings: Reddit apologises for Indian student’s witch-hunt
 
At least 21 killed in violence in China’s Xinjiang region
 
Australian charged with hacking government site
 
No disconnect between PLA and leadership, says Chinese scholar
 
Hacked AP Twitter account claim attack on White House
 
Tripathi family recalls pain
 
22 dead in clashes between Iraqi army and Sunni tribesmen
 
Troops still camped, but China denies LAC crossing
 
‘Syrian Electronic Army’ claims AP hack
 


Boston bombings: Reddit apologises for Indian student’s witch-hunt
 
5 dead in Washington shooting
 
23 killed in clashes at Sunni demonstration in Iraq 
 
Sunil Tripathi’s body found?
 
No disconnect between PLA and leadership, says Chinese scholar
 
At least 21 killed in violence in China’s Xinjiang region
 
























Today's Paper 
ePaper
This Day That Age
Crossword
Archives
Obituary







Group Sites
The Hindu
Business Line Sportstar
Images
Frontline












 OPEN


close
Recent Article in World




Sunil Tripathi’s body found? 	The nightmare may finally be ending for the Tripathi family, albeit on a sad note. On Tuesday, police in Rhode Island found a body from... » 



 

The Hindu:

Home |

News |

Opinion |

Business |

Sport |

S & T |

Features |

Books |

In-depth |

Jobs |

Classifieds |

IPL |

The Site:
|
About Us |
Terms of Use |
Privacy Policy |
Contacts |
Archives |
Subscriptions |
RSS Feeds |
Site Map 
Group Sites: 
The Hindu |
Business Line |
Sportstar |
Frontline |
Publications |
eBooks |
Images |


 Comments to: web.thehindu@thehindu.co.in
 Copyright© 2013, The Hindu

 








 
 


