Patrick Brown: China's gathering environmental storm - World - CBC News









Accessibility Links

Skip to main content
Skip to Patrick Brown: China's gathering environmental storm
Skip to supplementary story content
Skip to related news content
Skip to CBC accessibility page





 







CBC Global Navigation


CBC.ca

News
News Menu


Sports
Sports Menu


Music
 


Radio
Radio Menu


TV
TV Menu


My Region Menu
 


More CBC Menu
 


Watch 
Watch Menu


Listen
Listen Menu






Sign Up
Log In


 







CBC News World

Major StoriesIn The News

Autism
Rate My Hospital
Canada's new money
B.C. votes

CBC News Navigation
Home
World
Canada
Politics
Business
Health
Arts & Entertainment
Technology & Science
Community
Weather
Video

World
Photo Galleries




analysisPatrick Brown: China's gathering environmental storm
Earthquakes, polluted air, cancer clusters may threaten the ruling regime's 'mandate of heaven'

By Patrick Brown, special to 
CBC News

Posted:

Apr 23, 2013   5:26 AM ET



Last Updated: 

Apr 23, 2013   8:11 AM ET



 





A survivor of Saturday's earthquake in a remote section of Sichuan province, in southwestern China, sits outside a makeshift tent waiting for help. (Aly Song/Reuters)





analysis


Patrick Brown
Eye on Asia





About The Author
Former CBC correspondent Patrick Brown has reported from world capitals and dusty backwaters for over 30 years, with a particular emphasis on Asia, having been based at different times in Bangkok, Delhi and, most recently, Beijing. He now splits his time between Canada and China as an independent documentary-maker. Follow Patrick Brown on Twitter: @jiluTV







Related


Related Stories

China ramps up earthquake disaster response effortsChina's earthquake in pictures












China's new leaders are grappling with their first natural disaster — the earthquake that struck Lushan county, a remote mountainous area of Sichuan province, early Saturday morning, killing about 200 people and injuring many thousands.
In office for only five weeks, the new leadership seems determined to do a better job than the last one, and for good reason.
The relationship between the country's rulers and the natural world looms large in traditional Chinese thought. Dynasties have risen and fallen on their handling of things like irrigation and flood control, and natural disasters have been interpreted almost as nature's commentary on the quality of governance.
It was no surprise then that, within hours of Saturday's quake, Premier Li Keqiang arrived at the epicentre by helicopter to begin sympathizing with victims and supervising the rescue effort.
Li's predecessor, Wen Jiabao, was criticized for arriving late at some disasters, and often ridiculed as "China's best actor" for the theatrical tears he would shed when he did arrive.
In 2008, the image of the ruling Communist Party was gravely damaged by the much stronger earthquake that killed about 70,000 people in Sichuan.
It struck at two in the afternoon on a school day, and thousands of children lost their lives in buildings that had been shoddily built by unscrupulous construction firms in league with corrupt officials. Relief funds found their way into the same greedy pockets.
The only people to have been punished were not the culprits, but those brave enough to speak out and call for an accounting for the young lives lost.
One of them, the environmentalist writer Tan Zuoren, was sentenced to five years for "inciting subversion of state power."
Ironically, he's serving his time in Ya'an, at the heart of Saturday's earthquake. If his cell has a window he might have caught a glimpse of Premier Li's entourage inspecting the town.The 'Mandate of Heaven'Earthquakes, floods, droughts and other natural disasters have a special place in China’s history because of the ancient concept that a dynasty's right to rule depended on the "Mandate of Heaven."In photos: China's earthquake, devastation in Sichuan provinceToday, as China's leaders are subject to public scrutiny as never before, that concept is still relevant, particularly when it comes to disaster relief and environmental degradation.
The explosion of Twitter-like micro-blogging has given ordinary Chinese a new and growing sense that they have a right to more accurate and timely information — and the right to pass judgment on officials who were previously beyond criticism.
The opportunity to rate the new leadership's handling of a natural disaster comes at a time when people are also wondering how the authorities will tackle some epic man-made environmental problems.
The past five weeks have seen a cascade of revelations about the scale of degradation resulting from 35 years of single-minded economic development.
Here are just a few of the issues that have dominated the Chinese internet in the five weeks since President Xi Jinping and Premier Li began their 10-year mandate in March:A flotilla of 16,000 dead pigs drifted down the river that provides drinking water for China's largest city, Shanghai. Officials say there was no threat to health, but a leading internet theory held that farmers were dumping diseased pigs that would otherwise have been sold for meat prior to new regulations.Disappearing rivers. A three-year national water census revealed that the number of rivers with a catchment area greater than 100 square kilometres has dropped by 28,000 since the 1990s.In announcing a plan to control the use of 58 industrial chemicals, the government acknowledged the existence of "cancer villages" near factories. Activists have estimated there may be hundreds of such clusters, caused by pollution. Deaths from cancer in China have risen by more than 80 per cent since the 1970s.Official newspapers published an international study estimating that outdoor air pollution caused 1.2 million premature deaths in 2010. People are left to speculate what the figure is today, now that levels of the most dangerous fine particles in Beijing are commonly more than 30 times the World Health Organization's recommended standard.How dynasties fallFor modern historians, the collapse of the great Ming Dynasty in the 17th century is seen as resulting from many factors, including catastrophic changes in the world silver market.Health workers lower dead pigs into a processing pit where the carcasses will be fermented into organic fertilizer near Zhuji in eastern China. Over a two-week period in mid-March, nearly 16,000 pig carcasses were found floating in the nearby river system, or dumped by farmers by the side of the road for reasons that have never been fully explained. (Associated Press)Chinese who lived through those chaotic times also saw many causes, but the general view is that they felt that the Ming had lost the Mandate of Heaven, as demonstrated by the results of two major disasters: devastating short-term climate change known as the Little Ice Age, and the Shaanxi earthquake of 1556, which killed more than 800,000 people.
In modern times, many Chinese saw a connection between Mao Zedong's death in 1976 and the Tangshan earthquake, which killed a quarter of a million people six weeks earlier.
The Communist Party clings to the rhetoric of Mao's revolution as the foundation of its one-party rule. But for the past 35 years it has staked its legitimacy on the free market and a policy of breakneck development and relentless economic growth.
Recent weeks, however, have seen growing and unprecedented public concern about the price being paid in poisoned water, polluted soil, unbreathable air and contaminated food.
(In Hong Kong, retired customs agents have been called back to work to enforce a ban on the smuggling of baby milk, while retailers as far away as Britain and Australia have been asked to ration sales of baby milk powder because of bulk purchases for export to China. The reason: Chinese mothers still don't trust the Chinese product that was the subject of a deadly contamination scandal in 2008.)
President Xi Jinping has already suggested that he and the party will be judged on whether he keeps his promise to tackle pandemic corruption, a leading cause of public discontent.
Earthquake relief and reconstruction will be a huge test of that promise.
In the longer term, though, it may be that the gathering storm of discontent over the environment is an even greater threat to the party's Mandate of Heaven.


Share Tools

Report Typo
Send Feedback







Stay Connected with CBC News

Mobile
Facebook
Podcasts
Twitter
Alerts
Newsletter


Big Box Advertisement







Top News Headlines




Joe Fresh vows to be 'force for good' in Bangladesh 

The founder of Loblaw's discount clothing chain Joe Fresh, rocked by the factory collapse in Bangladesh that killed hundreds of people, today outlined his plan to work closely with local authorities to improve work conditions.    more »




6 new search and rescue measures expected today 

Defence Minister Peter MacKay will announce today six new measures related to Canada's search and rescue system, including new satellites and changes to response times, CBC News has learned. more »
Amanda Knox: 'I haven't been allowed to grieve' for roommate  

Amanda Knox, who spent nearly four years in an Italian prison after being convicted of murdering her British roommate, says she hopes her roommate's parents read her book and give her permission to visit their daughter's grave. She spoke with Anna Maria Tremonti on CBC's The Current. more »
Ron MacLean: Dressing room is place for all media  

Hockey Night in Canada host Ron MacLean explains why our world is better off with equal access for sports reporters of all backgrounds, beliefs and gender. more »
4 key questions about today's Ontario budget  

This afternoon, Premier Kathleen Wynne's government will table its first budget since she took the reins of the Ontario Liberal Party just over three months ago. CBCNews.ca will carry the budget live at 4 p.m. ET. more »





Must Watch




Latest World News Headlines




Amanda Knox: 'I haven't been allowed to grieve' for roommate  

Amanda Knox, who spent nearly four years in an Italian prison after being convicted of murdering her British roommate, says she hopes her roommate's parents read her book and give her permission to visit their daughter's grave. She spoke with Anna Maria Tremonti on CBC's The Current.  more »




149 still missing in deadly Bangladesh building collapse 

Rescuers found more bodies in the concrete debris of a collapsed garment factory building as the death toll reached 433 and police report that 149 people are still missing.  more »
North Korea sentences American to 15 years labour 

An American detained for nearly six months in North Korea has been sentenced to 15 years of "compulsory labour" for unspecified crimes against the state, Pyongyang announced Thursday.   more »
Q&A: The FBI's role in 'manufacturing' terrorism 

When investigative journalist Trevor Aaronson analyzed 10 years of terrorism cases prosecuted in the United States after Sept. 11, he found that almost all the men became terrorists with the help of the FBI. more »
Kazakhstan says it's helping police with Boston bomb probe 

Kazakhstan's Foreign Ministry says it is co-operating with the United States in the case of two of its citizens arrested in connection with the Boston Marathon bombing. more »

More Headlines »




The National


The Current

Waiting to Be Heard: Amanda Knox May.  2, 2013  9:56 AM In her only interview with a Canadian broadcaster, Amanda Knox on the mistakes she thinks Italian authorities made trying to convict her of murdering her friend and roommate.





Most Viewed
Most Commented





Chris Kelly of rap duo Kris Kross dies at 34
Parents of autistic children 'exasperated' by financial costs
Highway 401 lanes re-open after fatal Ajax crash
4 Canadian banks on Top 10 list of world's strongest
North Korea sentences American to 15 years labour
Boston bombing suspect’s friends accused of protecting him
Posting pictures of meals online? You may have health problems
'Exhausted' parents leave autistic son at government office
Amanda Knox: 'I haven't been allowed to grieve' for roommate














  
    The National
    
   
  
    The National
  
   
  
    Canada's most watched political panel At Issue is back to dissect the latest headlines.
   
  










CBC News App
CBC News App
Get a world of news with just the touch of your finger. Download the only news app that you need.






Big Box Advertisement











Show previous slide

Don't Miss



AUTHOR Q&A
The FBI's role in 'manufacturing' terrorism
An interview with Trevor Aaronson, author of The Terror Factory




Inside Syria
The changing tactics in Syria's brutal civil war 
Nelofer Pazira reports from Damascus




Global stimulus
Neil Macdonald on the secretive world of money printing
The case for more public scrutiny of the central banks




Iran and al-Qaeda
Ignoring al-Qaeda, Iran links 'extraordinarily foolish'
In 2 years since death of bin Laden, radicalism has evolved




ROYALTY
How Dutch Queen Beatrix found a normal childhood in Canada
Monarch abdicating in favour of her son, spent 5 years in Ottawa




Editor's Blog
Jennifer McGuire: The importance of being investigative
Investing resources in an original story sets CBC News apart from pack




Inventor's words
Hear Alexander Graham Bell's voice
As It Happens plays back 130-year-old recording




Zipper anniversary
10 bits of trivia that will impress the pants off you
Zipper's fans mark 100th anniversary of patent




Neil Macdonald
The illusion of growth
How central bank stimulus is creating a global 'bubble economy'




Monarchs of money
Neil Macdonald on the rise of the central bankers
And the war on savers




Europe's army
Brian Stewart on the surprisingly agile French military
Panache and a penchant for secrecy




BUYING SECRECY
Interactive: How offshore havens attract the wealthy
Stashing cash in European principalities, Pacific islands and the Caribbean



Show next slide




CBC Global Footer


CBC.ca


Aboriginal
Books
Contests
Digital Archives
Documentaries
Kids
Kids' CBC Preschool


Kids' CBC Wonder World
Music
News
Parents
Program Guide
Radio
Sports
Television


CBC Member Centre
CBC Player
CBC Shop



Corporate

About CBC
Transparency and Accountability
Jobs
Production Facilities
Mobile Production Rentals
Ombudsman
CBC: Get the Facts


Independent Producers
Pitch a Radio or Audio Program
Program and Content Sales
Archive Sales
Educational Sales
Image Research Library & Still Photos
Tapes & Transcripts
Digital TV




Stay Connected

Mobile
RSS
Podcasts

Member Services:Newsletters & Alerts




CBC Links

Terms Of Use
Reuse & Permissions
Advertise
Privacy

Site Map
Contact Us

CBC Radio-Canada

Copyright © CBC 2013

cbc.radio-canada.ca
cbc.ca
radio-canada.ca




















