China Premier Li Visits Quake Zone as Death Toll Jumps - Businessweek
Bloomberg Businessweek
Go To Businessweek.com
Sign in with Facebook
Or use your Businessweek account
Email
Password
Forgot  password?
Remember me
Already a Bloomberg.com user?
Sign in with the same account.
Don't have an account?
Sign up.
Help! I can't access my account.
Bloomberg Businessweek
News From Bloomberg
Global Economics
Companies & Industries
Politics & Policy
Technology
Markets & Finance
Innovation & Design
Lifestyle
Business Schools
Small Business
Video & Multimedia
Residents search for victims in houses damaged in an earthquake in Longmen village in Lushan county in Ya'an in southwest China's Sichuan province on April 20, 2013. Photographer: Liu Zhongjun/Color China Photo/AP Images
Bloomberg News
China Premier Li Visits Quake Zone as Death Toll Jumps
By Bloomberg News
April 20, 2013
Facebook
Tweet
LinkedIn
Google Plus
Email
Related
Story
Li Huabo, Corrupt Chinese Bureaucrat or Fall Guy?
Graphic
50 Experts on Parties, Management, Zombies, Self-Improvement, and More
China’s Premier Li Keqiang flew to
the southwest province of Sichuan after an earthquake yesterday
killed at least 156 people, injured about 3,000 and left more
than 100,000 homeless. 
President Xi Jinping and Li earlier ordered “all possible
measures” to rescue victims of the quake, which hit at 8:02
a.m. in Lushan, a county about 1,650 kilometers (1,000 miles)
southwest of Beijing. Civilian relief groups, military units
along with a national emergency response team of doctors, police
and firefighters headed to the region to deal with the disaster,
the official Xinhua News Agency reported. 
The temblor, measured at magnitude 6.6 by the U.S.
Geological Survey, hit on the same fault line as a 7.9 quake
that devastated nearby Wenchuan in May 2008. That was the
country’s deadliest seismic event in more than three decades,
leaving more than 87,000 people dead or missing including as
many as 5,335 children, according to government figures. 
Li’s rush to the region a month into his first term as
premier echoes that of his predecessor Wen Jiabao, who flew to
Wenchuan and oversaw relief work to reassure people that the
Communist Party was doing everything possible to help. 
“The current most urgent issue is grasping the first 24
hours since the quake’s occurrence, the golden time for saving
lives,” Li was quoted as saying in an English-language report
by Xinhua. State television showed Li on a plane with a map in
front of him holding meetings with officials. 
Chengdu Deaths 
Lushan county lies about 140 kilometers southwest of the
provincial capital Chengdu. The city government said the temblor
led to the deaths of 8 people and injured 188, according to
China National Radio. It wasn’t clear whether those victims were
included in the latest total. 
More than 6,000 military and armed police personnel have
been sent to help with rescue and relief efforts, Xinhua said.
The Ministry of Civil Affairs said it sent relief materials
including 30,000 tents, 50,000 cotton blankets and 10,000
makeshift beds. 
The Lushan county publicity department estimates about
140,000 people will need to be relocated, Xinhua said. 
A team made up of officials from eight ministries,
including civil affairs, health and transport have gone to the
epicenter to direct relief work, Xinhua said. 
Lushan is administered by Ya’an, a city with a population
of 1.53 million. CCTV said about 120,000 people live in the area
of the quake’s epicenter. 
Houses Destroyed 
The hardest-hit areas are Longmen and Qingren townships,
Xinhua said, citing Jin Zelin, an official with the provincial
armed police corps. Most of the buildings in the old urban area
of Lushan county and Longmen have collapsed, Xinhua said, citing
the local government. Three other townships in the county are
cut off, it said. 
Lushan is a mountainous rural area which was badly hit by
the 2008 Sichuan earthquake when many houses were destroyed,
according to the International Federation of Red Cross and Red
Crescent Societies. 
About 120,000 people are in need of temporary shelter,
food and water, Francis Markus, Beijing-based East Asia
spokesman for the organization, said in a telephone interview.
Teams from the China Red Cross trying to get to townships at the
epicenter are stuck because the road is blocked by a collapsed
house, he said. Roads are also congested with rescue vehicles,
he added. 
“The first 24 hours are critical after an earthquake to
get to people who may be trapped,” Markus said. “These kinds
of problems are happening right across the area and presenting
big logistical challenges to rescue workers.” 
Shattered Glass 
CCTV’s news channel broadcast live from Lushan,
interviewing officials, locals and some of the less seriously
injured who were being treated in the streets. People with
serious injuries are being taken to the Ya’an People’s Hospital,
the broadcaster said. 
Footage showed collapsed buildings and white tents erected
in public areas as temporary shelter. Soldiers were seen pulling
away rubble to search for survivors. A pregnant woman was among
those rescued, CCTV reported. 
Power lines and mobile phone base stations were knocked out
and five hydropower stations in Ya’an were disconnected, Xinhua
said. 
The State Administration of Work Safety ordered mining in
the region halted and the inspection of oil and gas pipelines to
avoid leaks and explosions, according to Xinhua. Sinopec Group,
Asia’s largest refiner, said no damage has been reported at its
production facilities in the area, Xinhua said. 
Production Halted 
The earthquake hasn’t affected PetroChina Co. (857)’s oil and gas
production or transmission operations in the area, Mao Zefeng, a
spokesman in Beijing for the country’s largest producer of oil
and natural gas, said by telephone yesterday. The company hasn’t
reported any casualties, he said. 
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) halted production at its plant in the
region and told employees to go home to ensure the safety of
their families, spokesman Ryo Sakai said in Shanghai where he is
attending an auto show. Aichi, Japan-based Toyota and partner
China FAW Group Corp. started production of the Prado sport-
utility vehicle in Chengdu in 2010. 
The temblor was felt in neighboring Chongqing municipality
and in the provinces of Guizhou, Gansu, Shaanxi and Yunnan,
Xinhua reported. Multiple aftershocks jolted the area, including
two measured at magnitude 5.1 by USGS. CCTV said there had been
264 aftershocks by noon. 
Secondary Disasters 
Pan Huaiwen, director of the China Earthquake Networks
Center, warned of secondary disasters including landslides, mud-
rock flows and the collapse of caves and riverbanks, Xinhua
said. 
Western, southwestern and northwestern China are prone to
earthquakes. A magnitude 5.1 temblor struck Yunnan province on
April 17 and one measuring 5.4 was reported in Sichuan in
January. 
At least 80 people died after two magnitude 5.6 earthquakes
shook Yunnan and Guizhou provinces in September, according to
Xinhua reports at the time. A 6.9 temblor which hit Qinghai
province on the Tibetan Plateau in April 2010 had a final death
toll of about 2,700, according to data from the provincial
government. 
To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jing Yang in Shanghai at 
jyang251@bloomberg.net
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
fshen11@bloomberg.net 
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
sjames8@bloomberg.net 
Facebook
Tweet
LinkedIn
Google Plus
Email
From
(enter your email)
To
(enter up to 5 email addresses, separated by commas)
Notes
Max 250 characters
Feed
Most Popular
Read
Shared
Discussed
In Virginia's Fairfax County, Robbing Banks for the CIA
The Price of Gold Is Crashing. Here's Why 
'Saturday Night Live' Nails the Gun Control Debate
The Boston Bombers and the Decline of Al-Qaeda
A New Design for Antarctic Research
It Costs $333 Million to Shut Down Boston for a Day
Multiplayer Game 'Eve Online' Cultivates a Most Devoted Following
America's 50 Best Cities
In Virginia's Fairfax County, Robbing Banks for the CIA
It Costs $333 Million to Shut Down Boston for a Day
The Price of Gold Is Crashing. Here's Why 
The Boston Bombers and the Decline of Al-Qaeda
Using Facial-Recognition Technology to Track Down the Boston Bombers (and Why Humans Are Still Better at It)
'Saturday Night Live' Nails the Gun Control Debate
VCs That Back Women Beat Those That Don't
Immigration Reform May Make Your Job Search Much Tougher
Saturday Night Live Nails the Gun Control Debate
The Price of Gold Is Crashing. Here's Why 
To Boost Retirement Savings, Stop Giving Tax Breaks on 401(k)s
Gun-Control Setback: Senate Blocks Background-Check Plan
How Obama Wants to Change Student Loan Interest Rates
At Goldman, the Average Pay for 3 Months is $135,594
The Glock Divorce Comes to America, Revealing New Details About the Gun-Maker
Ads by Google
Elsewhere on Businessweek.com
Fix This/Water
VCs That Back Women Beat Those That Don't
Pepsi to America: Thank You for Snacking
Turkish Fashion Designers Make Muslim Style Chic
Who's Winning the Silicon Valley Talent Wars?
Why Morgan Stanley’s Job-Hunt Ban Was Doomed to Fail
What Angel Investing Looks Like Now
Why Cell Phone Networks Fail in Emergencies
Why Homegrown Terrorism Is Hard to Stop
Don't Hate Stanford Because It's Rich 
Meet the Bitcoin Millionaires
Best Undergraduate Business Schools 2013
Social
Follow us on Twitter
Join us on Facebook
Connect with us on LinkedIn
Subscribe to Bloomberg Businessweek
Bloomberg
Links
Our Company
Advertising
Careers
Content Licensing
Feedback
Custom Publishing
Manage Subscription
Mobile
Newsletters
Privacy Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Sitemap
Terms of Use
[+] Rate This Page
Get Businessweek Delivered
Rupert Murdoch: The Escape Artist
Subscribe
©2013 Bloomberg L.P. All Rights Reserved. Made in NYC
Ad Choices
blog comments powered by
Disqus
