BBC News - Quake-hit Sichuan waits for help






       

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      bbc.co.uk navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Travel   Future   Autos   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




China







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video


China
India
























21 April 2013
Last updated at 15:39 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print









Article written by
Damian Grammaticas

China correspondent

More from Damian



Quake-hit Sichuan waits for help




Related Stories


Chinese teams reach quake-hit region


Scores die in rural China earthquake


In pictures: Sichuan quake



Through the centre of Longmen village columns of soldiers march in green fatigues, shouldering shovels. 
They jostle for space with military trucks and ambulances.
Eighteen thousand Chinese troops have been deployed to help in the aftermath of Saturday's earthquake. The rescuers have now reached Longmen and other villages that surround the quake's epicentre. 
Longmen sits astride a river in one of Sichuan's high valleys. The land is lush and fertile, surrounded by high mountain ridges. Stands of bamboo sprout from the slopes. The fields are planted with sesame, spinach and rice.

“Start Quote
I have no sense of security. I feel I could be buried alive here and die”
End Quote
Chen Yue Xian
 But throughout this high valley, in every village and settlement now, homes are smashed, rubble lies in the streets, and roofs have caved in: the destruction brought by the shockwaves from the earthquake.
And everywhere too now there is fear. People live in fear of the next tremor. There have been hundreds of aftershocks in the 36 hours since the quake.
Every hour the tremors come. Some are barely noticeable. But others make the ground shake under your feet.  First you hear a distant sound, a boom, like someone banging a giant drum. 
Then the swaying begins.
'I couldn't run'
While we were in Longmen several shocks hit. People, already traumatised by the original quake shrieked, grabbed their children, and rushed to get away from any large buildings still standing. 


Thousands of soldiers were deployed within hours of the quake

"It was terrifying when the earthquake struck," Chen Yue Xian told us. 
"There was nowhere we could escape to," she said. "Now I feel no place is safe. I have no sense of security. I feel I could be buried alive here and die." 
Standing beside her, 52-year-old Zhang Mei Zhen said: "I heard my son calling, 'Mum run, run'. I got so scared I couldn't run. Bricks were falling on top of me as I got out. We were so scared." 
In village after village, people too afraid to go back into any houses still standing are gathered outside. Some sit under awnings, some in the open, belongings piled next to them. 

“Start Quote
Because supplies are too slow, they will just have to fend for themselves”
End Quote
Longmen official
 Clusters of new, blue tents have sprung up, delivered by the rescue teams. But many people have no shelter. 
So families have salvaged furniture and are sitting on sofas out by the roadside, some have pulled mattresses and quilts from their damaged homes, others just have mats on the ground. 
Everywhere, too, families have set up outdoor kitchens to prepare food. But many say they have received no help from the government yet, apart from a little drinking water for each person.
Yang Hua Fen wanted to show us how she now has to live. So she took us past a ruined cottage to show us the huge cracks that run through her two-storey, concrete house. 
She has only a straw mat for a shelter, a bag of rice donated by relatives and some eggs. Flies crawl over everything. 
"We have to eat this," she complains. "If we don't eat we are going to starve to death." 
Then, getting angry she adds: "We need food, and a place to live, and water. We are drinking river water and we are getting headaches. Our children have no food to eat. Can you deliver the message to senior officials?"
Then she pulled out her mobile phone and waved it in the air. 
"They say on the TV everything is great, but it's not. I am receiving text messages that tell me the government cares about us, that they are giving us this much money, this much food, but we haven't seen it," she says. 
Queues of aid
Many it seems are getting frustrated and tempers are rising. Fifty-eight-year-old Gao Shi Qun stepped forward, anxious to have her say. 
"We don't have any food to eat. We see the country's economy is getting greater and greater every year, but we haven't had any help, or money, it's never our turn to get something." 


Groups of private volunteers have slowed down the aid efforts, say officials

Her neighbour, Wang Zheng He, 77, and the dozen members of his family have only a small wooden shack as their house collapsed too. Mr Wang said the government's response hadn't been good enough. 
"We have not got anything, only three bottles of mineral water each since the earthquake. The children are starved." 
As he spoke his relatives spotted a village official walking past. They hurried to surround him, demanding to know "why haven't we got anything? How long are we going to have to wait?"
The official smiled a little helplessly. "We are just low level officials. We don't know. So far the biggest problem is supplies are not getting to us quickly enough. The first problem is tents, and we have a big problem of food."
I asked him: "People are hungry, their children have nothing to eat. What can you do for them?"
And he replied: "Because supplies are too slow, they will just have to fend for themselves." 
The crowd, now angry, replied: "And how do we do that?" 
As we headed out of Longmen back down the valley we found roads choked with army trucks and four-wheel-drive vehicles carrying emergency teams. Further down the hill were lines of trucks carrying more supplies.
Trying to get in, too, are many private volunteers, bringing food and water to help. But the authorities say the volunteers are simply clogging the roads, slowing everything. 
One military officer in Longmen complained that the worst thing about this earthquake was the road up here. "All those volunteers bringing two packets of instant noodles each blocking the roads."
Whatever the reason for the lack of supplies, many are now sitting out in the open, frustrated and hungry. They have either lost their homes or are too afraid to return to them, and can do little but wait for aid.





Article written by Damian Grammaticas
Damian Grammaticas

China correspondent

More from Damian



Doubts over China government claims on Xinjiang attack 
23:14 UK time, Friday, 26 April 2013
Damian Grammaticas visits the scene of an attack in the remote Xinjiang town of Selibuya, where locals have cast doubt on the government's claims.

                    
                                                Read full article                                        








More on This Story


Related Stories



Chinese teams reach quake-hit region

21 APRIL 2013,                                                
                                                CHINA



Scores die in rural China earthquake

20 APRIL 2013,                                                
                                                CHINA



In pictures: Sichuan quake

21 APRIL 2013,                                                
                                                CHINA



Hospital moved outside after China quake Watch

21 APRIL 2013,                                                
                                                ASIA










Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print






















Top stories



N Korea jails US man for 15 years


Somalia famine 'killed 260,000'


Kris Kross rapper Kelly dies at 34


Girls poisoned 'over school rivalry'


Obama to discuss trade in Mexico









Features & Analysis




Still in peak form Watch

US mountaineer, 83, retraces his historic climb of Everest  	
				  




Mobs of monks

Buddhists are pacifists - so why are they attacking Muslims? 	
				  




Ghost pueblos

The Mexican villages emptied by drug cartel killers 	
				  




Bones in the sand

Mystery of the 200-year-old soldier found in the dunes of Holland 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: Why are Buddhist monks attacking Muslims?



2: American settlers 'turned cannibal'



3: Kris Kross rapper Kelly dies at 34



4: Huge payout for US disabled workers



5: N Korea jails US man for 15 years



Read




1: N Korea jails US man for 15 years



2: Stuart Hall admits indecent assaults



3: Poisoned yogurt 'kills two' in China



4: German TV drops show over SS actor



5: Why are Buddhist monks attacking Muslims?



6: Scientists make 'bug-eye' camera



7: Kris Kross rapper Kelly dies at 34



8: Tablet computer sales are soaring



9: Boy killed sister with gun for kids



10: Mystery of the 200-year-old guardsman



Video/Audio




1: Chemical attack victim given new face Watch



2: Nasa images show sun eruption Watch



3: Shark net trials in South Africa Watch



4: Climber retraces historic Everest climb Watch



5: 'Told I could not fly because I'm blind' Watch



6: Kris Kross rapper Kelly dies at 34 Watch



7: Atoms in 'world's smallest movie' Watch



8: Retailer calls for Bangladesh action Watch



9: One-minute World News Watch



10: Cover to Cover: Book design in focus Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC



BBC Culture 

A global view on film, fashion, art, music and more















Programmes



Fast Track Watch

Rajan Datar finds out whether the Croatian capital, Zagreb can be a new centre of fashion
















Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action
Editorial Guidelines




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyBBC Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesAccessibility Help     Parental GuidanceContact Us       BBC © 2013 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  








































    





