Scores die in rural China quake | TribLIVE
Sign In or Sign Up  
Username
Password
Forgot your password?
Just Pay Half! 
Subscribe
Place Ad
TribStore
Buy Trib Photos
Jobs
Homes
Autos
Classifieds
SportsTalk
Contests
Loading...
 
 | 
USWorld
Home
News
Investigative
Neighborhoods
State
Politics
U.S./World
Sports
Opinion/The Review
Business
A&E
Lifestyles
Obituaries
Nation
World
Middle East
Betsy Hiel
 Larger text
	
 Smaller text
	
Scores die in rural China quake
About The Tribune-Review
		The Tribune-Review can be reached via e-mail or at 412-321-6460.
		
		
Contact Us | 
		Video |
		RSS |  
		Mobile
Daily Photo Galleries
	
		
		
Friday - April 19, 2013
	
	
		
		
Thursday - April 18, 2013
	
	
		
		
Wednesday - April 17, 2013
	
Most Popular World
Scores die in rural China quake
Iraq election largely peaceful
U.S. grants $123M in nonlethal aid to Syrian rebels
With 2nd term, Italy’s president makes history
Pakistani judge orders Musharraf to be held
Blasts shatter calm in Somali capital; 19 dead
Assad: U.S. supports al-Qaida in civil war
21 men executed in Iraq for terrorism
Rape of 5-year-old ignites furious protest in India
Miracle on the Bali Sea: No one killed as plane misses runway
 Tweet
By The Associated Press
Published: Saturday, April 20, 2013, 9:30 p.m.
Updated 1  hour ago
 YA'AN, China — Residents huddled outdoors on Saturday night in a town near the epicenter of a powerful earthquake that struck the steep hills of China's southwestern Sichuan province, leaving at least 160 people dead and more than 6,700 injured. 
 The magnitude-6.6 tremor sent people fleeing from buildings on Saturday morning, triggered landslides and disrupted phone and power connections in mountainous Lushan county only five years after a devastating quake wreaked widespread damage to the same region.  
 The quake  struck about 8 a.m., when many people were at home, sleeping or having breakfast. People in their underwear and wrapped in blankets ran into the streets of Ya'an and even the provincial capital of Chengdu, 70 miles east of Lushan, according to videos and accounts posted online. 
 State broadcaster China Central Television showed images of bloodied people being treated in tents. 
 One injured man told the channel: “We still live in our old house, the new one is not ready yet. Our house just collapsed. Everything collapsed.” 
  Rescuers turned the square outside the Lushan County Hospital into a triage center, where medical personnel bandaged bleeding victims, according to CCTV.  
 Villages close to the epicenter were left in ruins. The quake's shallow depth, less than 8 miles, likely magnified the impact. 
 The village of Longmen was hit particularly hard, with nearly all buildings there destroyed in a frightening minute-long shaking. 
 Rescuers dynamited boulders that had fallen across roads to reach Longmen and other damaged areas lying farther up the mountain valleys, state media reported. 
  Tens of thousands of people moved into tents or cars, unable to return home or too afraid to go back as at least 710 aftershocks continued to jolt the region. 
 In nearby Ya'an, residents sat in groups outside convenience stores watching the news on television sets.  
 Fourteen-year-old Wang Xing and her relatives said they planned to spend the night in their cars.  
 “We don't feel safe sleeping at home tonight,” said Wang, a student. She said the quake left tears on the walls of her family's house. “It was very scary when it happened. I ran out of my bed and out of the house. I didn't even have my shoes on.” 
 Lushan, where the quake struck, sits atop the Longmenshan fault. It was along that fault line that a devastating magnitude-7.9 quake struck on May 12, 2008, leaving more than 90,000 people dead or missing and presumed dead.  
 Tweet
You must be signed in to add comments
To comment, click the Sign in or sign up at the very top of this page.
There are currently no comments for this story.
Subscribe today! Click here for our subscription offers.
More VideosVideo
 
Newspapers
Obituaries
TribLIVE Mobile News
TribLIVE Mobile Sports
Pittsburgh Tribune-Review
PTR eTRIB Digital Replica
Tribune-Review
Blairsville Dispatch
Daily Courier
Valley Independent
Valley News Dispatch
Leader Times
McKeesport Daily News
Community Newspapers
Marketplace
Autos
Classifieds
Find Pittsburgh Jobs
Homes
Pittsburgh Pennysaver
Trib Store
Store Circulars
Photo Store
Features
Search
Today's Stories
RSS Feeds
Site Map
Contests
Events Calendar
Movie Showtimes
Bloggers
Video
Fantasy Sports
Your Town
YourCranberry.com
YourFoxChapel.com
YourMonroeville.com
YourNorthHills.com
YourNorwin.com
YourPennHills.com
YourSewickley.com
YourSouthHills.com
YourTwinBoros.com
Help & Services
Contact Us
Feedback
Subscriber Services
Subscribe to our publications
Commercial Printing
Place a classified ad
Print advertising
Pittsburgh Newspaper Group
Images and text copyright © 2013 by Trib Total Media, Inc.
            Reproduction or reuse prohibited without written consent.
Advertising Information |
			Terms of Service
 
