  2000  January : Jeremy Leggett's Triple Crunch Log




Home | About | Campaign | Books | Contact | RSS FeedComments








Oil

Gas

Coal

Nuclear

Finance

Climate

Clean Energy

Change for Good

Archive













From the log: TOP TEN most recent signposts to the coming energy crisis


“Running dry”: Economist headline. “Oil production fails to keep up with demand.”
9 Jun 2011


“DECC accepts warning of rising peak oil risks”: Business Green.
9 Jun 2011


Head of Saudi Electricity Company says Saudi oil may run out in 2030 on current trends.
7 Jun 2011


IEA: governments should have recognised oil depletion problem ten years ago.
28 Apr 2011


Wikileaks cables: Saudi Arabia cannot pump enough oil to keep a lid on prices.
8 Feb 2011


Senior Saudi official says Saudi must develop solar and nuclear to stop soaring domestic oil use.
24 Jan 2011


USGS drops estimate of Alaska’s undiscovered oil by fully 90 percent.
27 Oct 2010


IEA warns Gulf spill effect has put the oil industry’s ability to find enough new oil “on a knife edge.”
11 Aug 2010


ConocoPhillips CEO Jim Mulva admits that pursuing new oil reserves no longer pays.
25 Apr 2010


US military warns oil output may drop unexpectedly, with massive shortages by 2015.
14 Apr 2010



TOP TEN Archive (2011 only)

View the TOP TEN archive


TRIPLE CRUNCH LOG Archive

View the full Triple Crunch Log archive going back to 2006 (mostly untagged before May 2011). 

Monthly Archives (fully tagged from May 2011)

September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
June 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
December 2009
November 2009
October 2009
September 2009
August 2009
July 2009
June 2009
January 2006
January 2000


Useful peak oil summaries on film

Acknowledging peak oil: ASPO TV, Feb. 2011.
Sadad al-Husseini ran Saudi Aramco’s exploration and production until 2004. He perhaps more than anyone should know what lies in the future for oil production. Hear what he and others have to say in this 7 minute film.
Crude: the incredible journey of oil. 2007.
Some very good documentary films have been made about peak oil. In my opinion, this is the best. Made by Richard Smith of the Australian Broadcasting Corporation.
Discovery and production won't meet future demand: ASPO TV, Feb. 2011.
Jeremy Gilbert was a senior BP reservoir engineer. See what he and others have to say about future oil production on this 7 minute film.
Oil crunch: ABC TV, Australia, 28 April 2011.
In the best short TV account I have yet seen on the peak-oil problem, the IEA’s chief economist is teased into going as far as I have ever seen or heard him go in saying that a crisis of global oil supply is near (8 minutes).
Perspective on peak oil concerns in UK industry, May 2011.
In this 9 minute ABC interview, posted on You-tube but only used in part in ABC’s Catalyst programme on peak oil, I talk about the reasons for concern, and best case / worst case in the peak oil threat assessment.


Useful peak oil summaries on radio

ABC Radio The Science Show, on peak oil, April 2011
“Oil price impacts everything, yet at some point, world oil production will peak – and then decline…”
Radio EcoShock (Vancouver), April 2011.
A comprehensive interview with Jeremy Leggett spanning peak oil, climate change and solar energy in its holistic context.


Solarcentury

The company I founded in 1998 to design and supply solar energy solutions for the built environment. Solarcentury



Solar Aid

The charity I founded in 2006, with a 5% contribution of Solarcentury profits, to help deliver solar lighting to Africa. Solar Aid



My latest presentations


Latest on solar:

Download here


Latest on the triple crunch:

Download here


Latest on SolarAid:

Download here


Energy Statistics

See statistics for Energy Production and Consumption





Archive for January, 2000


Backlog of untagged log entries: general
				January 1, 2000  Change for Good, Clean Energy, Climate, Coal, Commentaries, Finance, Gas, Nuclear, Oil

15 May11: Tepco now says reactor 1 melted down within a few hours of the tsunami hitting Fukushima and the automatic shutdown. Almost all the fuel rods melted and dropped to the bottom of the pressure vessel, from which all water had drained.
15 May 11: Iraq will miss oil output targets. So say senior company officials operating there. The plan was to quadruple by 2017: lift production to 12 mbd within 6 years, up from 2.6 mbd currently. This increase in production was to be a vital part of keeping oil prices manageable from 2015. Infrastructure is the problem.
15 May 11: Saudi must invest $88bn on power over next 10 years if electricity demand is to keep growing at 8% a year to reach the necessary 75 GW says the water and electricity minister.
5 December 2010: FT:  “From Quakers to suited psychopaths: Too many socially minded businesses leave their conscience behind, argues a new business history that impresses Jeremy Leggett.”
14 February 2011: Huffington Post: US must help Saudi Arabia turn into “the Saudi Arabia of solar,” WikiLeaks cables say. I find it encouraging to see American diplomats thinking like Silicon Valley visionaries when it comes to the role renewable energy industries can have in generating a secure and sane world a couple of short decades from now.
14 May 11: UK will sign up to CCC carbon plan through 2027, the only government to have a legally-binding carbon target beyond 2020. Targets in the plan for 60% overall carbon emissions cuts og 60% by 203 include 40% of power from renewables by then, and 31% of new cars and 14% of cars on the road being electric. Cameron intervened on Huhne’s side against Treasury and BIS.
14 May 11: EDF PR bid to persuade British to embrace nuclear. De Rivaz is thought to be on the verge of admitting that 2018 is now no longer tenable: Fukushima will cause at least a year’s delay.
13 May 11: Rising Mississippi threatens 10% of Louisiana oil production. Heavy rain has been lifting the Mississppi and Ohio rivers for weeks.
13 May 11: Former IEA director: shale gas revolution will disappoint. Jean-Marie Bourdaire concluded at the recent ASPO conference that the US developed the infratructure and (lack of) polcy for a slow-growth industry. Europe will not permit this. China and Australia will not develop shale gas until the returns are better.
13 May 11: Threefold rise in UK of people unable to pay energy bills, in the last four years. So warns the Money Advice Trust.
13 May 11: The meltdown in Fukushima reactor 1 was complete, but it is still not clear whether the pooled fuel on the floor of the reactor vessel went critical again. A China Syndrome seems to have been avoided though.
 
12 May 11: Tepco discovers reactor 1 fuel rods are fully exposed at Fukushima. Its not clear for how long. Workers started entering the building for the first time last week.
12 May 11: Japan to shut down 35 reactors by end May. That means only around a third of its 54 reactors will be in service. 5 more will be shut down in the months therafter for regular inspections, meaning 75% could be offline this summer.
12 May 11: Japan dodges many rolling power cuts because people and businesses are saving on a whole new scale. Many scheduled rolling power cuts have not proved necessary.
12 May 11: Serious disaster plan problems at US nuclear plants, NRC finds. Inspections show unusable emergency equipment, and failure to consider two of the Fukushima problems: trouble at more than one reactor, and infrastructure failure.
12 May 11: World oil demand almost flatlined in March, the latest IEA data show. Global demand rose just 0.4%. Reasons include the drop in US demand, but also “exceptional events” such as Fukushima.
12 May 11: US gasoline prices fall just as Washington cranks up pricing investigation: gasoline futures are down 9.3% in two days. Prices have hit $4 a gallon in some areas of the US.
12 May 11: Exxon CEO: oil industry needs $21bn subsidies that Democrats are trying to cut over 10 years to help reduce the deficit. Tillerson tells the Senate Finance Committee that removing them would be “counterproductive.” Other company bosses agree.
12 May 11: Wikileaks cables show scramble for Arctic resources by the circum-Arctic nations. Peter Wadhams: the ice has “gone of a cliff.” Measurements have shown that there is now only a quarter of the ice there was in 1979.
12 May 11: Huhne cannot say what the green deal interest rate will be. This is a key question. The Germans only manage 100,000 homes a year even with a Government-supported 2.6% interest rate.
12 May 11: US natural gas revolution wildly oversold, a PostCarbon Institute study concludes. Author David Hughes argues that EIA estimates of quadrupled of shale gas by 2035, from 14% of US gas to 45%, overlook the fast decline rates of wells after as little as a year.
11 May 11: French lower house votes to ban fracking of fossil fuels. If the senate repeats the vote next month it will become law.
11 May 11: Dwindling oil threatens use of Alaksa pipeline. Oil used to flood in at 2 mbd hot enough to mean arrival atround 100 degrees three days later. No longer, it seems. A third as much enters, meaning a journay five time longer. For how much longer?
11 May 11: Vestas says offer of 2,000 UK jobs depends on policy. The wind turbine manufacturer has signed an option on land for a factory.
11 May 11: Huhne strengthens energy bill with edict for landlords forcing them to take prt in the green deal. From April 2016 they will not be able to refuse reasonable requests from tenants, and from April 2018 they won’t be able to reent properties with less than an E rating.
11 May 11: SSE found guilty of mis-selling to 800,000 customers. Doorsteppers were told to give the impression they knew the householder was paying more with another energy supplier, when they didn’t. Surrey County Council Trading Standards have prosecuted them successfully. Now they want to go for their assets under the Proceeds of Crime Act. Sentencing is on 27 May.
11 May 11: Rolling Stone: Goldman Sachs lied, and should be presecuted. In an article chronicling the extraordinary findings of the Senate Subcommittee on Investigations, they set out a considerable rap sheet: a tale of master manipulation of systemic fraud.
10 May 11: UK green deal criticised as too weak as the Energy Bill enters second reading in the House of Commons. Households and businesses will be able to pay for energy efficiency measures in installments on their energy bills. FoE proposes a “warm homes” amendment committing to numbers and forcing landlords to act.
10 May 11: UK cabinet split on CCC’s 60% cuts by 2030 recommendation. Cable has written to Huhne saying the proposed carbon budget will cost the economy too much. The Treasury agrees with him, saying the UK could not afford them. Climate Change Committee chairman Adair Turner meets ministers to lobby. Will the government reject the independent statutory committee’s advise?
10 May 11: UK set to miss carbon and renewables targets. Cambridge Econometrics says current and planned policies will entail narrowly missing the first and second target, and missing the third (2018-2022) by a long way. The key targets of 20% carbon cuts and 15% renewables by 2020 will both be missed.
10 May 11: Co-operative Energy opens shop with a low-carbon UK energy consumer offering: lots of renewables, but some gas and nuclear in the mix offered. They want to change the Big 6 to the Big 7, they say.
9 May 11: US study finds methane contamination of drinking water near fracking sites, with up to 17 times normal concentrations within 1 km of wells in Pennsylvania and New York. Companies expect to drill some 2,000 wells in Pennsylvania this year.
9 May 11: Solar PV industry protests climate committee treatment of solar: barely mentioned in the CCC report, and only as an expensive option, comparing out of date costs to wholesale price competition, not retail.
9 May 11: S&P cuts Greece rating two more notches into junk status on the prospect of a further bailout, which they argue would be equivalent to a default. Politicians have said the €110bn original bailout is not enough. The ECD has agreed a restructuring of the debt is needed.
9 May 11: Banks cave in on PPI mis-selling, starting with Lloyd’s. The floodgates are now open for the biggest-ever consumer payout.
9 May 11: Solar PV cell and module production up >100% in 2010. PV News reports 23 GW of cells and 20 GW of modules produced, by more than 100% year on year. 17.5 GW of installations exceeded 2009’s 7.2 GW by 141%. Germany installed 7.3, Italy 3.9. Tier 1 Chinese crystalline silicon module prices declined from around $2.20/Wp on average in 2009 to $1.75/Wp in 2010. Five cell producers are >1 GW: Suntech (1.5), JA Solar, First Solar, Yingli and Trina. China/Taiwan is now 59% of the cell market, up 152%. Cell and module production is expected to increase by over 50% in 2011.
8 May 11: UK public still favours nuclear post-Fukushima, and in so doing is out of step with the rest of Europe. 80% of British are either in favour or think that nuclear will have a role to play in climate policy. 16% are against in any circumstances. These figures, in a Populus poll, haven’t changed since 2007. 42% favour building new nuclear, and 31% are against. But the support for, unlike against, is increasingly “soft”, the poll shows.
8 May 11: Oil rebounds, but a hedge fund loses £400m on the slide: Clive Capital, the world’s largest commodities hedge fund. Most were wrongfooted by the unexpected fall.
8 May 11: Shale gas “will transform markets.” Renewables will rise at best to 7% of primary energy by 2035, and require mjor subsidy, says Nick Butler in the FT. But shale gas production has risen 12 fold in the US during the last decade, now providing a quarter of needs. Some talk of exports. This could happen elsewhere. Shale gas could be the future.
8 May 11: “Victorian orthodoxies” will not save the UK economy, argues Will Hutton in the Observer. At today’s interests rates, we should be borrowing and investing, creating demand. He cites E&Y’s calculation of £450bn investment needed in the next 15 years to fight climate change, of which only £70bn is planned, i.e. £380bn short.
7 May 11: UK government way off “greenest government” promise, a report for Friends of the Earth by former Sustainable Development Commission head, Jonathon Porritt, concludes. Little or nor progress can be claimed on three quarters of 77 sustainability policies.
7 May 11: Pirate solar PV salesmen are becoming a problem in the UK. The BBC describes a dire example involving a Poole-based operator who is not Micropower Certification Scheme (MCS) accredited.
6 May 11: BP has to concede in fight with AAR: TNK-BP will do the Arctic oil exploration. BP still hopes to keep the share swap with Rosneft alive. But this will entail Rosneft agreeing to work with TNK-BP. All this is as a result of the conclusions of an arbitration panel. BP failed in April to buy out the oligarchs of AAR, who demanded $35bn fo their 50% share.
6 May 11: Japan shuts down more reactors. The government asks for two south of Tokyo at Harnakoa, atop a fault, to be closed pending reviews of earthquake vulnerability.
 
 
5 May 11: Oil falls 10% in a day – $12, the biggest ever abolsute fall – and commodities generally suffer a rout. The reasons probably begin with new figures showing a slowdown in the US economy, but other factors probably figured.
5 May 11: Kremlin accuses Russian oil groups of price fixing. They have colluded to keep petrol out of the market, and this is why there are shortages, he says. He orders the anti-monopoly service to investigate.
5 May 11: Workers enter Fukushima reactor building for first time since the accident. They can only do 10 minutes each, so high is the radiation. They will fit ventilators.
5 May 11: Italy signs a decree capping solar feed-in tariff payments at levels it thinks will deliver grid parity by 2017: a gradual descent to 2013 (with a fixed limit through 2012), thereafter amounts tied to a €6-7 bn overall limit on spending through 2016, by which time they expect 23 GW installed.
5 May 11: Seven PV companies take Italian government to court over Italian solar feed-in tariff cuts. AES Solar, Martifer Solar, Würth Solar, Fotowatio Renewable Ventures, Siliken, Solarig and Akuo want to pressure the government to keep the existing Conto Energia 3 in place, at least until the end of the year. They claim stranded investments.
5 May 11: Gillian Tett has a sense of deja-vu over ETFs. Exchange traded funds remind her of CDOs. They seemed a good idea at first, but increasingly exotic ETF instruments may be priming a financial trouble spot, as the Financial Stability Board has said in a small little-noticed report.
4 May 11: IPCC on renewables: costs will fall, output will leap. Their most comprehensive IPCC renewables report yet concludes that the technical potential, especially for solar, is higher than projected world energy demand. Renewables will grow up to 20 fold by 2050, reaching 200-400 exajoules. (World energy supply in 2008 was 492 EJ).
4 May 11: Renewables firms struggle with austerity and cheap gas. Vestas, REC, EDP Renewables and First Solar all flag weak 2011 prospects. 
4 May 11: “Cute” green energy won’t solve global problems, says Bill Gates, only big schemes like solar in deserts and nuclear will. Research is needed to find breakthrough technologies, he says. Isn’t here a danger of him sounding like the men from IBM?
4 May 11: Act now on peak oil or curtail mobility, EC Transport DG tells a meeting in European Parliament. Jeremy Leggett speaking at the meeting: … “warned the Brussels conference that the peak oil risk paradigm closely resembled the credit bubble shortly before it burst in 2008. “Our worst-case fear is that this will be experienced as a form of energy famine that – in a ‘just-in-time’ delivery world – could descend surprisingly quickly,” he said.”
4 May 11: Two US nuclear reactors are nearing completion. S&P analysts say they on course for operating licences by end 2011. S&P do not expect material delays as a result of Fukushima.
4 May 11: EU nuclear stress tests may be watered down. Beginning in June, they were to include terrorist attack and human error, but regulators are pushing for tests of natural disaster resistance only.
4 May 11: 5 men arrested at Sellafield had taken wrong turn. This morning, however, they and their suspicious “behaviour” of yesterday were front page “terrorist” news.
4 May 11: India looks to Australia for yet more coal. Adani Enterprises, the largest Indian coal importer, has bought an Australian coal terminal for $2bn.
4 May 11: FTSE 100 would be nearly a third carbon fuels after the Glencore IPO at the end of the month, if the likely valuation of c. £60bn holds. The mining, oil and gas sectors would make up some 34% of the index. Mining would be worth £320bn, more than oil and gas.
4 May 11: French bank volunteers to pay a Tobin Tax. The 0.01% self-imposed tax on Credit Cooperatif’s foreign exchange trading would raise an estimated €100,000 a year for development projects.
 
 
3 May 11: Iraq halves oil output target. It is now 6.5 to 7 mbd, down from 12, by 2017, according to Oil Ministry sources of the Times. It current pumps 2.68 mbd. The government is aware that too much production would depress prices, and that massive investment would be needed in order to hit the target: $150bn according to the IEA. Contracts will be rengotiated with BP, Shell and others.
3 May 11: Third Eurozone country bailed out: Portugal accepts €78 bn (¢116m) package from EU and IMF.
3 May 11: Goldman advises clients to sell commodities, while Morgan Stanley says continue to buy, for now. Goldman’s reasons include weakening demand in the US and Japan, and the risk of Middle East instability spreading.
3 May 11: US justice department sues Deutsche Bank for more than $1bn, over lies and “reckless” endorsement of risky mortgage loans during the run up to the financial crisis.
3 May 11: “More total fuel damage has occurred at Fukushima than all previous reactor accidents combined.” So concludes a Union of Concerned Scientists expert review of events to date.
3 May 11: Fukushima has triggered soaring EU concern about nuclear power, an FT Harris poll shows: around half are more concerned in UK and France. 8% of Germans and 71% of British find it feasible that renewables can replace nuclear within 30 years.
3 May 11: 5 men arrested at Sellafield hours after binLaden killing, on suspicion of terrorist activity. They are from Bangladesh, living in London.
3 May 11: UK solar workforce grows 32% in last 4 months. Most of the 951 new jobs are in sales.
3 May 11: Brightsource IPO may trigger a “Google effect” some investors enthuse, with solar the main sector of interest. Solarcity, SunRun and OPower are cited as other candidates.
3 May 11: Oceans could rise >5 feet by 2100: Arctic researchers. The Arctic Monitoring and Assessment Project reports back, without troubling newspaper editors too much. Their estimates are higher th an the IPCC’s (up to 23 inches by 2100, in the 2007 report) because they factor in melting of the Greenland ice cap.
3 May 11: Climate change will bring more extreme precipitation and floods, scientists report. An Oxford-led study of 6,000 weather stations from 1951 to 1999, published in Nature, shows a rise in extreme events that cannot be explained by natural variability, but fits greenhouse-gas concentration increases. Humidity is loading the weather dice.
2 May 11: Climate change influenced record US tornadoes in April, top climatologists say. Kevin Trenberth says it is “irresponsible” not to mention climate change in the context of the record month, and record 24 hour period. There is around 4% more water vapour in the atmosphere than 30 years ago.
1 May 11: Centrica threatens to shut gas field in tax protest. The BG owner says it may not resume production in the field, supplying 6% UK of UK gas, unless chancellor Osborne’s recent tax is cut.
1 May 11: Radical new energy solutions may be possible, and will be needed: Scientific American special report. Examples of outliers considered include on the one hand machines that convert sunlight and carbon dioxide into fuel and on the other those capable of “igniting fission reactors with laser-driven fusion explosions that consume spent nuclear fuel.”
 
 
30 Apr 11: Renewables will overtake oil, gas, coal as main world energy source by 2025, say leaders of ……..oil, gas companies. The annual Maxwell Drummond International Energy Survey 2011 is based on responses from business leaders in major oil and gas operators and contractors in Europe, US, Canada, Asia, Africa, Australasia and the Middle East. Kevin Davidson, CEO: “In contrast to last year’s survey, alternative energy is now at the forefront of energy business leaders’ minds as an increasingly valuable source.
29 Apr 11: US gasoline price now $3.87, close to the 2008 high. Terrible news for President Obama. Polls show that Democrats tend to be blamed when gas prices rise. 69% want more offshore drilling. Exxon’s profits in Q1, just announced: $10bn. But cutting subsidies does not help the motorist, cutting tax does.
29 Apr 11: “Days of abundant resources & falling prices over forever”, guru fund manager Jeremy Grantham says in a quarterly newsletter to investors.
29 Apr 11: Can the Saudis maintain 9 mbd production? Maybe not, an Energy Bulletin analysis suggests. Consistent with earlier Barclays Capital analysis, they conclude that the Saudis are wrong to say the reason for the March production fall is that the market is oversupplied.
29 Apr 11: Scientists hunt million year old ice core. Ice age pulses occurred every 40,000 years or so before then, faster than the 100,000 years or so since. Why?
28 Apr 11: Africa’s largest solar factory to be built in Algeria by Centrotherm: 116MW, by 2014, €290m ($430m) cost. Tangiers plans to spend $60bn by 2030 on renewables, financed by an oil export tax.
28 Apr 11: Oil crunch in 2012-13, Chris Skrebowski predicts at the ASPO Europe annual meeting. Supply is getting tighter and not enough people view the supply issue in terms of flow rates.
27 Apr: 7 PV companies will take the Italian government to court over changes to the Conto Energia IV, a new law that reduces solar support from June. They seek to protect projects long ago started.
25 Apr 11: Greenland ice cores show 5-6 C changes in just years. So James White of the University of Colorado has shown with his research.
 
4 Apr 11: Virtually no UK mid-sized solar projects will go ahead under the government’s feed-in tarrif cuts, research by building giant Kingspan shows. Almost nothing above 50kW would be reach the 5% target return that DECC has in mind.



[i] http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-28/total-to-begin-friendly-tender-for-up-to-60-of-sunpower-shares.html


[ii] http://www.guardian.co.uk/business/2011/apr/29/total-solar-power-renewables


[iii] http://www.guardian.co.uk/business/2011/apr/29/goldman-sachs-villain-financial-crisis


[iv] http://finance.yahoo.com/blogs/daily-ticker/u-energy-plan-sell-oil-reserves-profits-invest-124232376.html



 


Backlog of untagged selected log entries for oil and gas.
				January 1, 2000  Gas, Oil

“Oil could hit $220 a barrel on Libya and Algeria fears, warns Nomura”: Telegraph.
23 February 2011: This does not factor in wider Gulf problems. Spare  capacity would then return to the water thin margins seen during the  first Gulf War. “Speculative activities were largely not present” then,  says a Nomura analyst. The price reaches $112 during the day. “Jeremy  Leggett, a leader of the UK industry task force on peak oil and energy  security, said the Mid-East crisis “shows the extreme fragility of the  global system. People don’t realise how close we are to a potential  precipice if this unrest reaches critical mass in enough OPEC countries.  Governments need to draw up emergency plans and get cracking on  proactive measures while we still have time,” he said.”
DECC consultation suggests “supply crunch if not a peak in oil production” very likely before 2020.
27 January 2011: UK Parliamentary question by John Hemming: “To ask the  Secretary of State for Energy and Climate Change whether he has  estimated a date on which global production of crude oil will peak; and  if he will make a statement. [36644] Charles Hendry: We have not  estimated a date on which global production of crude oil will peak.  However, we do look at a variety of sources that assess oil demand and  oil depletion including the IEA, industry and other research  organisations. In 2010, DECC’s chief scientist sent out a call for  evidence on the prospects for future oil supply to a range of experts. A  number of responses received argue that a supply ‘crunch’ (a tightness  in the oil market), if not a peak in oil production, is very likely  before 2020. We are very grateful for the excellent responses and will  use the results to help ensure that our analysis is informed by all  relevant factors and further develop energy policies that reduce the  risks inherent in a resource constrained future.”
Saudi Arabia may double oil use by 2023, cut exports 45% by 2030.
23 November 2010: Bloomberg: “The kingdom consumes about 1.2 million  barrels a day of oil and refined products for power generation and about  the same amount of crude for processing, ACWA Power Chief Executive  Officer Paddy Padmanathan said today at a conference in Abu Dhabi.  Unless the government goes ahead with a plan to diversify power  generation sources, crude available for export could slip to 45 percent  of the total produced by 2030, he said. … Under a long term plan to  diversify fuel sources by 2030, the country is likely to generate 20  percent of its power from solar plants, 20 percent from nuclear energy,  40 percent from gas and 20 percent from oil and crude products,  Padmanathan said.”
“Oil shock warning to government from UK business:” BBC.
18 November 2010: “(The) UK Industry Taskforce on Peak Oil and Energy  Security (ITPOES) has produced a briefing update called Peak Oil: the  implications of the Gulf of Mexico spill. It warns that in the wake of  the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, tightened regulation of deep water  drilling could see oil prices rise. Sir Richard Branson, whose Virgin  Group is among the members of the industry taskforce, said the disaster  in the Gulf had increased the chances of an “oil crunch” in the coming  decade. He said: “The time to take out our insurance policies against  such an outcome is now. We must do this to avoid the horrible shocks to  the UK economy which will be mirrored in many other parts of the world.”  The group warned that without a strong and co-ordinated response from  ministers to protect the economy and society from rising prices, the  cost of travel, food, heating and consumer goods would rise.”
“Protect us from peak oil, says Richard Branson (and others)”: FT.
18 November 2010: “In February, a group of business leaders (including  Richard Branson) came together to issue the government a warning: we’ve  had the credit crisis, the next crisis will be a peak oil crisis. Now  they have repeated that call, with an additional warning: Macondo has  made the situation even more pressing.” … The obvious response from  government will be, “Why should we listen to you?” One of the reasons is  that one of the spokesmen for the group is Jeremy Leggett, chairman of  Solarcentury, but also a government adviser on renewables. But even he  admits, “Many people in DECC have said, ‘We have looked at your analysis  and we simply don’t agree.”
‘Peak crude oil’ hit in 2006, and ‘the age of cheap oil is over,’ says IEA’s chief economist.
12 November 2010: CS Monitor: “It was a looming doomsday scenario: “Peak  oil” would someday hit, potentially sending food prices soaring, stock  markets reeling, and countries to war to seize and protect remaining oil  reserves., the International Energy Agency said Tuesday, peak crude oil  already came and went unnoticed in 2006. Crisis averted, apparently.”
IEA WEO 2010: Questionable assumptions and major omissions, says The Oil Drum.
11 November 2010: “The World Energy Outlook 2010 makes quite a  number of assumptions that seem wrong, and omits important ideas. Here  are a few that Oil Drum staff members have mentioned. ”
“BP’s report into the Deepwater disaster realises all our worst fears about the oil industry”: Guardian editorial. 
8 September 2010: “This is BP’s attempt to write the second draft of  history – one in which as little blame as possible is apportioned to BP  itself. An example: of the report’s eight key findings on the cause of  the explosion, five read as though they are really the subcontractor’s  responsibility rather than BP’s.”
A German Army think tank warns of a coming oil crisis that could threaten democracy.
31 August 2010: Der Spiegel runs a story on a study of global oil  production, not meant for the public, by a think tank in the Bundeswehr.  “A permanent supply crisis threatens – and only the fear of it can  cause turbulence in commodity markets and stock exchanges. The topic is  so politically explosive that it is remarkable if (sic) an institution  like the army uses the term Peak Oil in public.” Conclusions include the  probability of bottlenecks in the supply of important goods including  food supply; partial or even complete market collapse …. “an alternative  would be conceivable: government rationing and the allocation of  important goods or the setting of production schedules and other  coercive short-term market-based mechanisms in times of crisis.”  Democracy could come under threat, the authors conclude.
Macondo spill is having little impact on global drilling in deepwater, now 7% of total production.
25 August 2010: NYT: “Large offshore accidents in Mexican, British and  Australian waters since the late 1970s barely slowed deepwater  development, and history may well be repeating itself. … That is not to  say that foreign governments, regulators and environmentalists did not  take notice of the BP accident ….But the limited reaction so far can  be explained by the growing importance of deepwater drilling to world  oil supplies, especially in countries like Norway whose production is in  decline. Since 2006, nearly half the total oil and gas reserves added  worldwide have been in deepwater areas. Six million barrels of oil a  day, or 7 percent of total global production, is currently produced in  such areas, and total deepwater world oil production is expected to  double by 2030, according to IHS-CERA.”
Oil shock ‘very likely’ within decade, warns Huhne.
22 July 2010: Interview with FT:  “It will be a world where we will have  very substantial oil price spikes, which have an enormous capacity to  provide shocks to the domestic economy and to the world economy, exactly  as they did in the 1970s and 80s.” … “What worries me … is that we’re  moving from a world where the UK is dependent on imported energy for  only 27 per cent of our needs, to a world where it’s going to be  anything from 46 per cent to 58 per cent within 10 years.” FT: “Mr Huhne  promised to encourage take-up of energy efficiency measures and  low-carbon technology through “a system of incentives, triggers and  nudges”.”
Former Dow Jones reporter writes on Nasdaq.com that Saudi King’s view means peak oil is here. 
21 July 2010: Brendan Coffey, , a doubter of peak oil until 2006, now  with Cabot Wealth Advisory: “The departure from the successful script  OPEC has followed is a remarkable signal of change to me, one that to my  mind indicates peak oil is here – there is only so much oil left, and  the Saudis want to sell it when the oil crunch becomes apparent again.”  …. “About 10 years ago, OPEC sources indicated Saudi Arabia needed to  sell a barrel of oil at $18 to break even. Two years ago, data from  ratings agency Fitch (which cares because it evaluates sovereign debt)  estimated Saudi Arabia’s breakeven had risen to $26. In January, Fitch  pegged breakeven for the country at $68 a barrel. If it costs more to  produce oil, it clearly is harder to get. And Saudi Arabia is the  primary low-cost oil producer on the planet.”
Lloyd’s of London warns of “catastrophic” consequences if companies fail to prepare for peak oil.
14 July 2010: In a report with the Institute of Strategic Studies, the  insurance institution says Britain needs to be ready for “peak oil” and  disrupted energy supplies at a time of soaring fuel demand in China and  India, constraints on production caused by the oil spill in the Gulf of  Mexico, and political moves to cut CO2 to halt global warming.  “Companies which are able to take advantage of this new energy reality  will increase both their resilience and competitiveness. Failure to do  so could lead to expensive and potentially catastrophic consequences”…  “Even before we reach peak oil, we could witness an oil supply crunch  because of increased Asian demand. Major new investment in energy takes  10-15 years from the initial investment to first production, and to date  we have not seen the amount of new projects that would supply the  projected increase in demand.
FT puts King Abdullah’s pronouncement in the context of 4,4 mbd spare capacity, and gas demand. 
5 July 2010: FT: “Saudi oil minister Ali al-Naimi said in June that the  country wouldn’t need to increase its oil production capacity until  2020. The country now reports it has 4.4m b/d of spare capacity – more  than double the ‘cushion’ that it officially targets. Upstream reported  in May that Saudi Arabia is exploring for hydrocarbons in the Red Sea,  and has recorded 22,000km of seismic data there, among challenging  geography including 2km-plus water depths, high temperatures and a layer  of salt. It has also commissioned exploration around the Manifa oil  field in the Persian Gulf. But the overall focus is on gas, not oil,  because of the Kingdom’s domestic electricity supply problem. It heavily  subsidises both fuel and electricity use, and consequently consumption  is growing too fast for domestic gas supply to keep up with. Platts  reported last month that Saudi Arabia diverts about 877,000 b/d – or 11  per cent of its current oil output – to its own domestic electricity  supplies.”
Saudi Arabia’s King Abdullah orders a halt to oil exploration operations in the Kingdom.
4 July 2010: So the official Saudi Press Agency, or SPA, reported  yesterday. “I was heading a cabinet meeting and told them to pray to God  the Almighty to give it a long life,” King Abdullah tells Saudi  scholars studying in Washington. “I told them that I have ordered a halt  to all oil explorations so part of this wealth is left for our sons and  successors God willing.” A senior oil ministry official, who declined  to be named, tells Zawya Dow Jones the king’s order isn’t an outright  ban but rather means future exploration activities should be carried out  wisely.
BP “staked future on expanding offshore drilling”, released company strategy document shows. 
28 June 2010: A strategy paper seen by the Guardian newspaper shows this was to be its number one area for long-term growth.
My view: The  triple crunch log shows how the bad news about the Macondo well has been  like a veil lifted by increments, day by day and week by week, until  finally the worst case appears before us  - that the leakage may never  be stemmed until the pressure drops by means of haemorrhage from the  reservoir. That could take up to four years, we now learn.  In the  process – and all the financial damage, brand erosion and operational  constraint it will incur beyond the horrors to date – BP may well have  committed suicide as a company. It has staked its future on deepwater  drilling and lost: at minimum it has lost over a hundred billion  in value, and more likely it has lost its life. But what of the other  major oil companies? How much of their future have they staked on deep  water drilling? The answer to this question, and the implication for  peak oil,  is a huge question mark hanging over an oil-dependent world  economy.
  
After a sequence of failed efforts to stop leak, BP’s survival is now at stake.
1 June 2010:  Arbuthnot in a note to clients: “BP has spent $1bn to date  and the future costs will be significant. Adding in the inevitable  litigation costs, this will have a major financial impact on the company  which realistically cannot be quantified in the short term. What  worries us the most is the emotive language coming from the Obama  administration and the reputational damage done so far. It is difficult  to see how the company can recover and it remains unclear what punitive  measures will be put in place in terms of its operations in the Gulf of  Mexico.”
CIBC’s Jeff Rubin likens the Deepwater Horizon to Three Mile Island.
5 May 2010: Writing in the Globe and Mail, he says: “Will the unfolding  environmental catastrophe from the ruptured Deepwater Horizon well in  the Gulf of Mexico become deep-water oil’s equivalent to the Three Mile  Island accident? In terms of environmental degradation and economic  cost, it’s already become much more. The real legacy of Three Mile  Island wasn’t what happened back in 1979, though, but rather what  happened, or more precisely didn’t happen, over the course of the next  40 years in the United States. Literally overnight, the near-meltdown of  the reactor core changed public acceptance of nuclear power plants. No  company in the U.S. has built a new one since.”
Costs of Gulf oilspill likely to exceed Exxon Valdez as backlash builds against BP.
30 April 2010: Brent Coon & Associates, an American law firm playing  a large role in bringing cases against BP for the Texas City refinery  fire in 2005, files a lawsuit on behalf of a rig worker injured in last  week’s blast, and argues that criminal charges should be brought against  the company for its repeated failure to act after a series of  industrial accidents in the US. “They don’t learn their lessons, they  are the most arrogant bunch of bastards I’ve ever dealt with,” says  lawyer Brent Coon. “It’s like they just don’t care. At some point, we  are going to have to put some of these executives in jail and withdraw  their right to exploit our natural resources.”
Chevron CEO sees no future for his company in the shale gas rush.
25 April 2010: John Watson that the “price tag is too high” to justify  the investments required, a big contrast with those who insist that new  drilling techniques are a “game changer” and lift projections of  reserves of shale gas from 30 years’ worth of supplies to 100 years.
FT.com suspects policymakers, economists and peak-oilists are starting to speak same language. 
20 April 2010: “It’s still the rare politician or industry executive who  would use the phrase ‘peak oil’. But in the UK, a country for whom  domestic oil production decline is very much a concern, the issue has  become almost mainstream.”
My  view: This is encouraging, but I am not sure it is accurate. Pushing the  earl-peak argument hardly feels mainstream to me at present. None of  the UK political party manifestos mention peak oil going into the  election. And when asked about at the Guardian debate on the  environment, the three environmental spokespeople – Miliband, Hughes and  Clark – show varying degrees of complacency, Miliband worst.
IEA forecasts oil will hit record levels this year and threaten recovery.
13 April 2010: The latest forecast is 86.6 million barrels of oil per  day, 2% higher, up 1.67 million barrels a day. “Ultimately things might  turn messy for producers if $80-$100 per barrel is merely seen as the  new $60-$80, stunting economic recovery while prompting resurgent  non-oil and non-Opec supply investment. A recovery in oil demand is  moving apace. The return of economic growth and hence oil demand growth  is fuelling the increase.” OECD recovery could be blighted, the monthly  report concludes.
Kuwait Times: Kuwait needs to be more aware of peak oil and global warming.
3 April 2010: Staff writer. Abdullah Al-Qattan, speaking of the February  report by Kuwaiti scientists that peak oil might be as close as 2014,  writes: “If Peak Oil is this close, then, why are we failing to adapt?  One reason might be widespread ignorance of the basics of  environmentalism. Some people might not realize what terms such as  ‘green building’ actually mean, with such critically important  terminology missing from even our modern textbooks. This has led to a  common unawareness of the global ecological crises and a consequent lack  of any consideration for these urgent problems, such as global warming  and pollution, which in turn will lead to further amplification of these  problems.” If it wanted to, Kuwait could be a green country, developing  plentiful renewables including solar, Al-Qattan says.
US Department of Energy admits that peak oil may come as early as 2011 
25 March 2010: “A chance exists that we may experience a decline” of  world liquid fuels production between 2011 and 2015 “if the investment  is not there.” So says Glen Sweetnam, main official expert on oil market  in the Obama administration, in an interview with Le Monde. Sweetnam is  director of the International, Economic and Greenhouse Gas division of  the Energy Information Administration at the DoE says the investments  needed ar as yet “unidentified.” The DoE predicts decline of identified  sources of supply at 2 percent a year, from 87 million barrels per day  (Mbpd) in 2011 to just 80 Mbpd in 2015. But by then global demand is  expected to be 90 Mbpd, meaning “unidentified” additional liquid fuels  projects would have to fill in a 10 Mbpd gap within less than 5 years.
Richard Branson and other UK business leaders warn of oil crunch within five years. 
8 February 2010: “The next five years will see us face another crunch –  the oil crunch. This time, we do have the chance to prepare. The  challenge is to use that time well. ….Our message to government and  businesses is clear: act. Don’t let the oil crunch catch us out in the  way that the credit crunch did.” There are signs that the UK government  is already beginning to listen, and move away from the narrative given  on peak oil by BP, Exxon and the Saudis. JL: “[We are] in regular  contact with government; we have reason to believe their risk thinking  on peak oil may be evolving away from BP et al’s and we await the  results of further consultations with keen interest.”
Kuwaiti  scientists forecast world conventional crude oil production will peak in 2014.
4 February 2010: The Kuwait Univerisity / Kuwait Petroleum Company  study, published in the journal Energy & Fuels, describes the  development of a new version of the original “single cyle” Hubbert model  that accounts for individual production trends (i.e. a “multi-cycle”  model) to provide a global oil production forecast. The researchers  analyse production trends of the 47 oil-producing countries supplying  most of the world’s conventional crude oil.
Petrobras CEO says oil capacity, including biofuels, will peak in 2010 and drop rapidly, at 5% pa.
4 February 2010: A 1 December 2009 presentation Jose Gabrielli gave in  Sau Paulo is translated on The Oil Drum. In it, he says that the world  needs oil volumes to replace the equivalent of one Saudi Arabia every  two years to offset future world oil decline rates …just to keep  production constant at less tham 90 mbd. TOD analysis shows Gabrielli’s  additions exclude additions from unsanctioned projects and from oil yet  to be discovered, so many potential Iraq projects and Brazilian Santos  basin projects are not included. BP professes Iraq might produce another  8 mbd by 2020. Petrobras forecasts an additional 2 mbd from Brazil by  2020, making another 10 mbd capacity by 2020. That still leaves a  required lower capacity addition of 19 to 24 mbd in 2020 to come from  other sources: equivalent to production from about two Saudi Arabias. SA  production was an average 9.3 mbd in 2008 and new capacity addition  over two years 2008&9 was less than this (9.2 mbd).
Tony Hayward sees peak demand before peak supply – beyond 2020.
4 February 2010: “I personally – and BP – have never believed we will  see peak oil because of supply. We always believed we would see peak oil  because of demand. There will come a time – I believe it is beyond 2020  – when because of the changes in the energy portfolio, because of the  drive for energy efficiency, because of the introduction of biofuels,  demand for oil will peak.” There is plenty of oil in the world, not  least in Iraq, expecting as he does production to grow from a couple of  million barrels a day today to close to 10m. This makes it “a big part  of oil security for the world.” he dismisses fears over dependence on  Russian gas as “paranoic.”
 
Goldman Sachs: oil shortages will reappear in 2011.
18 January 2010: By then supply demand will be outpacing supply  because of underinvestment. Analyst Jeffrey Currie forecasts demand  exceeding pre-crash levels by Q3 this year. “It’s as good as it’s going  to get right now in terms of supply growth,” says Currie.  Goldman  predicted in December that crude would average $90 a barrel in 2010 and  $110 per barrel in 2011. Goldman’s outlook for this year is  joint-highest among 38 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Ofgem sees a “cliff edge” in UK gas supplies in 2015-16. 
13 January 2010: Alistair Buchanan, head of Ofgem, tells the FT he sees a  risk that new Russian and the Caspian gas supplies might not be  available in time to meet UK demand as domestic gas production falls. UK  gas production is down 40% since 2000. Buchanan questions whether the  ultra-competitive UK market is structured in the right way to guarantee  security of supply.
Demand for oil is increasing at such a rate in Saudi Arabia that exports are likely to be constrained, analysts fear.
11 January 2010: Domestic consumption jumped 16.4 per cent year on year  in August because of an unprecedented surge in the burning of crude.  Inefficient power plants and shortage of gas led the reasons. As a  result, the IEA has revised up its forecasts for Saudi domestic oil  consumption to 2.8m barrels a day in 2010. Last year’s production was a  record 12.5m barrels a day. The government has postponed some  energy-intensive projects. Oil is sold for $5 a barrel in the Kingdom.  FT: “Even Saudis complain that subsidised fuel and cheap cars encourage  wasteful use of energy, especially by young people who have little means  of entertainment in the conservative kingdom except driving or  participating in unofficial drag races.”
Wall Street Journal asks why Saudi Aramco is using supercomputers for oil if peak oil is bunkum.
19 November 2009: Journalist Russell Gold asks “why bother throwing  so much muscle into understanding the reservoir if there were no worries  about its future performance. We’re not sure who is right or wrong in  the peak oil debate. But the oil industry’s interest in speed computing  is intriguing. It’s not just Saudi Arabia turning to computers to find  increasingly elusive oil. The world’s fifth-fastest supercomputer –  Tianhe-1 in Tianjin, China – will be used in part for oil exploration.
UK Industry Taskforce on Peak Oil calls for urgent review by government of impact of oil shortages.
15 November 2009: Chairman of ITPOES Will Whitehorn of Virgin says:  “Given the revelations from within the IEA, we hope the government will  be urgently reviewing the complacent approach to peak-oil risk evident  in the Wicks Review.”
Swedish academics say the IEA report is “politicised” by countries with a vested interest in a low oil price.
12 November 2009: Kjell Aleklett of Uppsala university and others  estimate global production in 2030 at 75 million barrels a day, rather  than the 105 mbd the IEA suggests. The Uppsala team have a paper coming  out in Energy Policy, setting out reasons for the descent to 75 mbd,  putting the peak around now.
IEA whistleblower claims key oil reserve figures are distorted by US in the World Energy Outlook. 
9 November 2009: The un-named senior IEA official, who fears industry  reprisals if he goes public, tells the Guardian that the decline of  existing reserves is being underplayed, and the prospects of finding  more overplayed, in order to stop panic buying. He claims the IEA knows  the world can never reach 105 mbd production. “Many inside the  organisation believe that maintaining oil supplies at even 90m to 95m  barrels a day would be impossible but there are fears that panic could  spread on the financial markets if the figures were brought down  further. And the Americans fear the end of oil supremacy because it  would threaten their power over access to oil resources.” An ex senior  IEA source added that a key rule at the organisation is an “imperative  not to anger the Americans” and that “we have [already] entered the  ‘peak oil’ zone. I think that the situation is really bad.”
Total warns that environmental constraints will accelerate the oil crunch by slowing exploration. 
22 October 2009: “Governments need to assess the needs of this planet in  terms of energy and stop saying we will develop solar and then not have  enough,” Christophe de Margerie, Total’s chief executive, says in an  interview with the Financial Times. “Carbon is not the enemy; carbon is  life. ….“Don’t go to Copenhagen only with your concern about the  environment. We also have a concern over energy access. If you take only  one [concern with you], we are dead and we don’t want to die.” He  warned that not only the planet would suffer if the UK and other  governments failed to enact smart environmental policies. “I hope you  have a lot of candles,” he said.
With oil at $79, a Global Witness report warns governments are ignoring the peak oil issue. 
20 October 2009: Among the issues discussed: the IEA expectation that  production from existing oilfields falls by 50% by 2020, meaning an  additional 64m barrels a day of capacity is needed by 2030 – six times  current Saudi Arabian production. Global Witness takes issue with the  IEA’s recommendation that the oil industry spend $450bn a year on  exploration. Climate change means this would would be better invested in  transitioning to a post-oil world of renewable energy and conservation.  Recent discoveries add up to nothing like the discovery rate needed,  totalling around 16bn barrels, or only around 1.7m barrels a day.
ConocoPhillips boss fears oil will peak below 100 mbd. 
20 October 2009: Jim Mulva tells reporters this in a side comment at the Oil and Money Conference in London.
ASPO USA annual meeting produces a consensus the peak oil will fall in the 2012-15 window. 
16 October 2009: Analyst Chris Nelder compares the results of this  meeting with the first, four years ago: “We now know that conventional  crude did in fact hit its peak-plateau in 2005, having remained around  the 74 mbpd level ever since. The expected growth from non-OPEC mostly  failed to materialize, as depletion of mature fields took its toll and  the cost of new projects soared—especially for deepwater and production  from marginal sources. More pessimistic observers now think the 87 mbpd  all liquids peak recorded at the height of the 2008 boom was the peak,  and the more optimistic ones have cut their expectations to under 100  mbpd, with 90 mbpd looking more likely. ….. Most observers believe the  globally averaged depletion rate has risen from 4.5% per year in 2007 to  about 5 – 5.5% now, which will accelerate to around 6.5% per year by  2014. This is more or less in line with the average rates from IEA’s  report last year.”
UKERC report on peak oil concludes that there is “a significant risk of a peak before 2020.” 
8 October 2009: “….Although there are around 70,000 oil fields in the  world, approximately 25 fields account for one quarter of the global  production of crude oil, 100 fields account for half of production and  up to 500 fields account for two thirds of cumulative discoveries. ….The  average rate of decline from fields that are past their peak of  production is at least 6.5%/year globally, while the corresponding rate  of decline from all currently-producing fields is at least 4%/year. This  implies that approximately 3 mb/d of new capacity must be added each  year, simply to maintain production at current levels – equivalent to a  new Saudi Arabia coming on stream every three years. ….More than two  thirds of current crude oil production capacity may need to be replaced  by 2030, simply to prevent production from falling. At best, this is  likely to prove extremely challenging. ….For a wide range of assumptions  about the global URR of conventional oil and the shape of the future  production cycle, the date of peak production can be estimated to lie  between 2009 and 2031. Although this range appears wide in the light of  forecasts of an imminent peak, it may be a relatively narrow window in  terms of the lead time to develop substitute fuels.”
My  view: This report comes the UK’s premier energy research institute. The  government has so far ignored the warning by the UK Industry Taskforce  on Peak Oil and Energy Security. Will it be able to ignore this one too?
First peak oil hedge fund for institutional investors set up in New York.
8  September 2009: Hedge fund investor, logi ENERGY LLC., announces The  Peak Oil Value Fund, the first of its kind aimed at institutional and  accredited investors. “We believe that the effects of Peak Oil on the  markets are a temporary Global Macro series of events” says Larry  Ortega, CIO. “We only have a few years to take advantage of these  opportunities.” The fund’s investment strategy employs five approaches:  1) Publicly Traded Equities and Equity Options; 2) Investment in oil in  storage; 3) Investment in Oil, Gasoline and Heating Oil spreads in the  Futures Markets; 4) Private Investment in Public Equities of Oil and Gas  Exploration Companies; and 5) Private Investment in Private Companies  or Oil and Gas Fields.
BP finds giant oilfield in Gulf of Mexico and the media is full of talk that peak oil concerns are over. 
2  September 2009: The Tiber field, in 4,100 feet (1.25km) of water might  be as large as the 4 bb Forties field, BP says. JL: “This [BP] find is  welcome but its not going to take concerns away at a time when existing  fields are depleting faster than expected and the new discoveries have a  very long lead time.”  The FT reports  a more sober “at least 3 bb” of which only 500,000 barrels is  retrievable with today’s technology. The field is the deepest ever:  almost 6 miles (9.4 km) below the sea bed. BP believes there could be a  further 20bb to be found in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico. (Us proved  reserves are around 30bb, BP’s were 18.1 bb at the end of last year).  The field is unlikely to be onstream before the second half of the next  decade.  Goldman Sachs argues  that Tiber is no answer to BP’s “thin pipeline of new projects in the  2010-13 period,” Iain Reid of Macquarie?Securities argues that it “does  scotch a few bears who thought there was a production black hole after  2013”.
See my Guardian blog on this.
Split in US oil industry over plan for “energy citizen” protest rallies against proposed climate legislation.
14 August 2009: A leaked American Petroleum Institute memo shows the  umbrella organisation asking companies to stage up to 22 gatherings  mobilising thousands of “citizens” to protest against proposed  carbon-reduction measures such as forcing oil companies to invest in  renewables. Exxon strongly supports the plan, but API members BP and  Shell are members of the US Climate Action Partnership, that supports  many of Obama’s proposed policies. Jack Gerard, API President, entreats  members to keep the memo confidential, because it would arm “critics”,  but it finds its way to Greenpeace anyway.
UK Government review of energy security virtually ignores peak oil. 
5 August 2009: The author, former energy minister Malcolm Wicks, says of  energy security generally – on page 1 of 119 – that “there is no  crisis.” The whole report sits very uncomfortably with  the IEA’s   latest thoughts, as carried by the FT and Independent on Monday.  As for  the work of the UK Industry Taskforce on Peak Oil and Energy Security  (ITPOES), the report does not mention it, much less our significantly  less sanguine conclusions.  The taskforce had two meetings with DECC  officials, one of which Mr Wicks attended himself. Peak oil is mentioned  but once, in a short box on page 45. This passage concludes: “Few  authors advocating an imminent peak take account of factors such as the  role of prices in stimulating exploration, investment, technological  development and changes in consumer behaviour.”
IEA’s  Chief Economist issues another energy crunch warning, this time on a front page. 
3 August  2009: The Independent reports an exclusive interview in which the IEA’s  Fathi Birol warns that catastrophic shortfalls in oil threaten global  recovery.
My view: Dr Birol seems to become more trenchant with each  interview. It’s as though the World Bank were warning about the credit  crunch ahead of time. But still few appear to listen.
McKinsey Global Institute warns that a 1970s-type oil shock could follow the current recovery 
29 July  2009: Scott Nyquist, a McKinsey Director, writing in Business Week:  “unless business leaders and policymakers act decisively on both oil  supply and demand, there is a risk that a second oil shock could follow  economic recovery—indeed, one that could be lengthier than the second  price spike that hit the world economy in the 1970s.” MGI says there is  much governments could do to abate risk. They calculate that  “investments to increase energy productivity that offer investors a  return of 10% or more could reduce global oil demand by as much as 10%  by 2020, or between 6 million and 11 million barrels per day—the amount  required to keep demand and supply in balance.” But “it may already be  too late to avert a second oil shock that could develop as early as  2010, depending on how quickly the global economy recovers.”
Oil & Gas UK warns that UK faces an energy crunch as exploration falls in North Sea
9 July 2009: A report shows investment in exploration is dropping  57% in the first half of 2009. It fell to £4.8bn last year, down £1.2bn  on the previous two years, and could drop to £3bn next year, where £5bn  is needed. Domestic reserves still contribute around two thirds of UK  primary energy. 37bn barrels could be extracted, the industry believes.  On this showing it will nearer 11 bn barrels.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission will hold hearings on potential US curbs on oil trading
7 July 2009: The reining in of speculators (not just in oil, but gas and  other commodities) by setting limits is now on the cards. The traders  are predictably unimpressed. One says: “People forget you need the  speculator to take the other side of producers trade – if you have a  producer who needs to hedge then you need a speculator.”
The threat of an oil supply crunch has receded with the recession, the IEA says
30 June 2009: The IEA has cut its oil demand forecast by fully 3.3  mbd by 2013. The agency foresees 0.6% growth of 540,000 barrels a day  from 2008 to 2014, meaning consumption increases from from 85.8 mbd to  89. The Opec cushion is now expected to reach 7.78 million barrels a  day, or 8%.
Comment: See the Reuters article of 23 June for a less sanguine view.
IEA sees potential for oil supply crunch by 2014
23 June 2009: This Reuters assessment differs from the FT’s portrayal,  below. It could happen if global growth returns to 5% pa, IEA chief  Nobuo Tanaka says. “If GDP only grows 3% we will probably see a  postponing of the supply crunch until after 2014,” he adds.
My view: This is essentially the same view as the UK industry taskforce’s.
Brown asks for an emergency plan to stop oil prices wrecking the recovery
21 June 2009: The UK PM orders Treasury and Department of Business  officials to prepare for a scenario where a rising oil price leads to a  lending drought for UK companies. He will seek an international  agreement to limit the price of oil, which is at nearly $72.
My view: There is something of Canute in this.
BP CEO says oil will peak because of peak demand, not availability of supplies
11  June 2009: Tony Hayward offered a restatement of his company’s position  on peak oil at the release of the 2009 BP Statistical Review of World  Energy. The review shows that in 2008, for the first time, total energy  demand in poorer countries (including China and India) exceeded power  and fuel consumption in wealthier nations. “Our data confirms that the  world has enough proved reserves . . . to meet the world’s needs for  decades to come,” Mr Hayward said, adding that constraints on production  were “human, not geological”. Will Whitehorn, chair of the UK industry  task force on peak oil and energy security, calls the findings  overoptimistic. He says: “Many of the reserves figures are overstated.”
Goldman Sachs reverts to bullish forecast as oil nears $70 a barrel
4  June 2009: Surprising Wall Street, Goldman has forecast $85 a barrel by  year end, ending a spell of bearish forecasting. As recently as end  April it was predicting $45 within three months because of plentiful  inventories and weak demand. Goldman predicted the “super-spike” above  $100 ahead of anyone else, in March 2005 when crude was around $55,  building much kudos. But then it had a spell of bad forecasts, including  wrongly calling $200 oil.
Gulf faces gas shortfall: only Qatar and Iran have enough supplies for their own needs
26 May  2009: The cumulative gas shortfall for the 6 GCC nations may be at least  7 trillion cubic feet by 2015. Neither Qatar or Iran can necessarily  help their neighbours. Qatar’s moratorium on new North Field projects  extends to at least 2013, as things stand. In Iran, the problem is  global and regional politics. Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and the UAE are  already burning oil for power and expected increasingly to do so. The  UAE is turning to nuclear, after concluding they will need to add more  than 40GW by 2020. They estimate not much more than half of that can  feasibly come from gas. An un-named official from the Abu Dhabi National  Oil Company: “Most people don’t recognize it, but the Middle East has  one of the world’s fastest growing rates of [power] demand….and the the  net effect is a lot of crude oil is getting diverted to the electricity  sector.”
My  view: This will boost oil use significantly in the oil exporting  countries, imperilling supply for oil-importing countries once peak oil  hits.
Saudi oil minister warns of oil price spike in 2-3 years, worse than the 2008 one
26 May 2009: Ali Naimi says the next spike will result from ongoing underinvestment in new capacity.
Russia cannot guarantee the EU that there will be no further disruptions to gas supplies
25  May 2009: President Dmitry Medvedev tells an EU-Russia summit in  Khabarovsk that he cannot promise uninterrupted gas supply to the west.  Neither, relatedly, will Russia be lending any more money to Ukraine,  because it has concerns about Kiev’s solvency. Ukraine should be filling  its storage facilities around now ready for winter, and isn’t. This  itself impacts smooth transit to Europe.
The high oil price of early 2008 was due much more to peak oil than speculation
11 May 2009: Steven Kopits, Managing Director of Energy business  analysts Douglas-Westwood, observes that global production plataued in  October 2004, and in the four years thereafter the global economy  expanded by 18% while oil supply didn’t grow. Prices rose because more  new Chinese consumption hit the market than developed economy  consumption fell out of it. And then the world economy collapsed. Now,  market manipulation is rife. Opec is reducing production at millions of  barrels a day and investment banks are using charted supertakers to  hoard something like 100 million barrels to profit come the return to  high prices. Why no outrage about the investment banks, he asks. Because  people only care about high prices once they experience high prices.  Regulators will have to contain oil prices if they are to prevent a  “second peak oil recession.”
“Peak oil, not speculation,” Steven Kopits, Douglas-Westwood Industry Comment, 11 May 2009.

 


Backlog of untagged selected clean energy log entries.
				January 1, 2000  Clean Energy

Solar PV costs falling exponentially: meaning grid parity begins in America in 2015.
16 March 2011: Solar PV electricity could be half the price of coal in  20 years. Scientific American: “The exponential trend in solar watts per  dollar has been going on for at least 31 years now. If it continues for  another 8-10, which looks extremely likely, we’ll have a power source  which is as cheap as coal for electricity, with virtually no carbon  emissions. If it continues for 20 years, which is also well within the  realm of scientific and technical possibility, then we’ll have a green  power source which is half the price of coal for electricity.
Solar PV becoming cheaper than gas in California?
8 February 2011: Renewable Energy World: “We hear it every day: “Solar  is too expensive.” Well, not according to the California utility  Southern California Edison. In a recent filing to the state’s Public  Utilities Commission, SCE asked for approval of 20 solar PV projects  worth 250 MW – all of which are expected to generate a total of 567 GWh  of electricity for less than the price of natural gas. Although the  exact details of the 20-year contracts for the projects are kept  confidential for a few years, the utility reports that all winning solar  developers issued bids for contracts below the Market Price Referent,  which is the estimated cost of electricity from a 500-MW combined-cycle  natural gas plant. What does that mean? It means that a large number of  solar PV project developers believe they can deliver solar electricity  at a very competitive price. And these aren’t mega-projects either. All  of the installations will be between 4.7 MW and 20 MW – a sweet spot for  PV projects.”
“UK says it may cut prices paid for renewable power”: Bloomberg.
8 February 2011: “The department said it will speed up an analysis of  solar projects bigger than 50 kilowatts, with new tariffs mandated “as  soon as practical.” That threshold, which includes panels on buildings,  is a “huge step back” for the industry, which expected only  installations in fields to be reviewed early, said Jeremy Leggett,  chairman of Solarcentury Holdings Ltd. “This sets back the U.K.  industry, and I wouldn’t be surprised if this was the last straw for  some investors,” Leggett said in a telephone interview today after  having lunch with Greg Barker, the minister in charge of the program.  That meeting hadn’t put his mind at ease, he said. / Leggett’s views  were backed up by Osaka-based Sharp Corp.’s U.K. solar chief Andrew Lee,  who said the move will “cripple” the industry. Dave Sowden, chief  executive officer of the Micropower Council trade group, said it would  put “jitters” into the market. ….“This is going to put the jitters into  some market segments,” Sowden said today in a phone interview. “It’s the  fast-track threshold of 50 kilowatts that is of concern, because that’s  going to catch a lot of rooftop installations. That’s come as a  surprise. Nothing in reading the tea leaves of parliamentary language  flagged concern in that area.” Sowden’s view was backed up by Leggett,  who said “never once through this exercise were we give to understand  that solar on buildings was to be at risk by early review.”
Institutional investors may exit Spanish assets after government cuts solar feed-in tariff retroactively.
9 January 2011: This it did just before Christmas, trimming the  pre-agreed sum by €3 ($3.9bn) over the next three years. Asset manager  and private quity groups say the move is illegal. A survey shows nearly  half says they will reduce exposure to Spain generally as a result.
Investment recommendation by former Dow Jones reporter worried about peak oil: solar PV. 
21 July 2010: Avoid oil companies, because their share price will  involve forward pricing, not just the high oil prices of the day. “If  you follow the market closely, you likely recall the fantastic year  solar stocks had in 2007: Nearly every solar-related stock posted  triple-digit gains that year, with the best performers, First Solar (  FSLR ) and Ascent Solar ( ASTI ), posting eye-popping 750% gains. The  downside is the whole sector has suffered from a significant hangover  since then as profit taking and then the 2008 financial crisis forced  shares lower. Even industry leaders have plunged, like silicon wafer  provider MEMC Electronic Materials, which has fallen to around $10 from a  2007 high of $90, and First Solar, which held up well through much of  2008 until it too succumbed to the bear market. It has fallen 50% from  2008′s peak. But as we see in nearly every market and sector sell-down,  the bears have overdone it. Solar are now priced at bargain-basement  value-stock levels, in some cases their companies valued like businesses  in decline rather than great growth companies of the future. A simple  screen of the leading solar panel and wafer stocks trading on US  exchanges shows solar stocks are trading at the lowest multiples they  ever have. The price to current fiscal year earnings for the 12 leading  solar stocks is 11. Right now the S&P 500 is trading at a  price-to-earnings of 20. In fact, the basket of leading solar stocks is  trading at a lower valuation than the utilities sector (which has a P/E  of 13), conglomerates (18), basic materials (20) and every other sector  of the market through financials (P/E of 99).”
New renewable power capacity topped fossil fuels and nuclear again in US and Europe during 2009.
15 July 2010: Investment in renewables totalled $162 billion in 2009:  the second highest annual figure ever (after 2008) and nearly quadruple  the sum invested in 2004. Total global investment in solar PV reached a  record $40 billion in 2009. “Grid-connected solar power has grown by an  average of 60 percent every year for the past decade, from 0.2 GW at the  start of 2000 to 21 GW at the end of 2009. Power produced by solar PV  dropped in price some 50 to 60 percent by some estimates – from highs of  $3.50 per watt in mid-2008, to lows approaching $2 per watt. Investment  in energy efficiency technologies in 2009 totalled $4bn. Pro-renewables  policymaking is now to be found in more than 100 nations. Globally,  renewable energy industries employ an estimated 3 million people, about  half of them in the biofuel industry. Development assistance flows for  renewables jumped to more than $5bn in 2009, up from around $2 billion  in 2008.
Germany could 100% of its electricity from renewables by 2050, German Environment Agency says.
7 July 2010: “A complete conversion to renewable energy by 2050 is  possible from a technical and ecological point of view,” says Jochen  Flasbarth, president of the Federal Environment Agency. “It’s a very  realistic target based on technology that already exists – it’s not a  pie-in-the-sky prediction.”
Solar roofs could generate up to 40% of the EU’s electricity demand by 2010.
1 July 2010: So says the Building Integrated Photovoltaics conference of  the European Photovoltaics Industry Association concludes. Some 40% of  EU roofs and 15% of facades are suitable, and 1,500 GW could installed  on them, generating around 1,400 TWh annually. The European Performance  of Buildings Directive could help the EU get on this general road, when  it comes into force in 2012. The EPBD requires all new buildings to be  zero carbon by 2020, and PV must inevitably play a key role in that.   (Photon magazine, no url).
95% of global electricity consumption could come from renewables by 2050.
1 July 2010: So concludes the European Renewable Energy Council  concludes a study with Greenpeace. Updating their 2007 study, they lift  the renewable contribution from 70%. The study foresees solar PV  providing 33% of global electricity by 2050, making it the number one  energy source. The study assumes all countries use german-style feed-in  tariffs, played out over 20 years. Solar PV electricity costs by 2025  would then be 5-10 cents per kWh.  (Photon magazine, no url).
PV depresses electricity prices and so “threatens” traditional utilities in Germany.
1 July 2010: So concludes a study from the Arrhenius Institute in  Hamburg. The reason is that utilities reap their best profits at times  of peak demand, when pricing is based on the most expensive electricity  being produced at that time. This is how they raise capital for further  power-plant investments. But at these times – midday and in the  afternoon – PV is performing best. The study proposes a radical  solution: that either the rules are changed, or PV is capped at 500MW to  3 GW per year in Germany.  (Photon magazine, no url).
Obama uses an Oval Office TV address to call for “national mission” on clean energy.
15 June 2010: This is his first such address. Presidents usually only  use them in times of great stress, e.g Kennedy during the Cuban Missile  Crisis, Bush when invading Iraq. Apart from the expected pledges on  further action in the Gulf, and BP’s requirement to pay, he says: “For  decades, we have known the days of cheap and easily accessible oil were  numbered. For decades, we have talked and talked about the need to end  America’s century-long addiction to fossil fuels. And for decades, we  have failed to act with the sense of urgency that this challenge  requires.
PWC show how Europe and North Africa could get to 100% renewable electricity by 2050.
1 April 2010: To do this would require policy substantial investment,  but the reports’ authors profess that experience with other large  infrastructure programmes shows the financing capacity “is there.” Such a  system would result in a net decrease in power imports among the  countries concerned.
UK opinion poll shows huge public support for feed-in tariffs.
27 January 2010: A survey of more than 2,000 people carried out for  the Cooperative Group and others shows that two-thirds of people think  that the government’s feed-in tariff plans should be more ambitious, and  that 71% of homeowners would consider installing green energy systems  if the tariffs give a good return.
Russia seeks bilateral role in Indian solar expansion.
13 January 2010: Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh launches the  Jawaharlal Nehru National Solar Mission, aiming for 20 GW of solar  energy for India by 2022, alongside Sergei Seredin, Russia’s first  deputy director general of economics and finance, who led a delegation  from Moscow in the inaugural ceremonies. He says Moscow was interested  in playing a role in New Delhi’s strategy to construct solar power  stations and manufacturing facilities.
US real estate investment trusts are showing increased interest in renting roofs for solar.
23 December 2009: Building owners then have the roof rental income  and can sell the electricity to customers or municipalities. A new  survey by CoreNet and Jones Lang LaSalle finds 21 per cent of corporate  real estate tenants willing to pay higher rents for “sustainable” space  if that is offset by lower operating costs. A BMO Capital Markets  analyst says a “vast majority” of Reits have either conducted  feasibility studies or actually started solar generation projects.
Legendary venture capitalist John Doerr says Silicon Valley will be renamed Solar Valley within ten years. 
21 December  2009: But it won’t be kids like the founders of Netscape and Google that  make solar work, one source says, it will be experienced old hands.  This is because success doesn’t come easy. The article features Miasole,  founded in 2003. Former CEO Dave Pearcepredicted that MiaSolé would  have $100 million in sales in 2007. But it just shipped its first panels  to customers in October.
Masdar solar power plant is working as predicted as enthusiasm for solar grows in the GCC.
9  November 2009: Operating company Enviromena have devised a dry cleaning  method that disproves the sceptics who said dust would be problem. Gas  is short in most GCC countries, winds are not strong enough, but solar  insolation and space are abundant. NCB Capital cites a study by Franz  Trieb of the German Aerospace Centre calculating that Arabia’s large  desert regions receive annually average solar energy equivalent to 1.5m  barrels of oil per sq km.
National Grid CEO says embedded generation can provide some 15% of UK electricity by 2020.
5 December 2009: Steve Holliday, who runs the UK’s largest utility  company, says rooftop solar panels, wind turbines and other home  energy-production devices could generate almost one sixth of Britain’s  electricity supplies from homes and offices within just ten years..
Stanford and UC Davis scientists table plan for 100% renewable energy by 2030.
1  November 2009: The 11.5 TW needed might best be attained as follows:  5.8TW of wind (51%), as 3.8 million 5 MW wind turbines and 720,000  0.75MW wave converters; 4.6 TW of solar (40%), as 1.7 bn 3 kW rooftops,  49,000 300 MW CSP plants, 40,000 300 MW solar PV plants; and 1.1 TW (9%)  as tidal, geothermal and hydrelectric plants.
Amid rancour, China is wresting the solar energy crown from Europe, Daily Telegraph concludes.
23  August 2009: Almost-free state finance backs the Chinese solar giants  up, giving them a big advantage over western companies. This has helped  drive the world average module price down from $4.20 last year to almost  $2 now. Helped further by the government’s linking of an undervalued  yuan to a weak dollar, Chinese companies can undercut European companies  by around 30%. And Suntech, Trina and Yingli all say they will be  manufacturing PV modules below 70 cents a watt by 2012. Solarworld and  Conergy have called for EU sanctions over Chinese “dumping” policies.  Q-Cells is having to close four production lines, and 500 jobs at  Thalheim, and move manufacturing to Asia. China is seizing the wider  green crown too. It is spending a sizeable part of its stimulus on green  energy. Baoding, the solar and wind hub, is the first carbon-positive  city in the world. China is also intent on building 100 GW of wind by  2020. Energy security is more of a driver than climate change. Chinese  coal imports rose 130% in the first half of 2009.
Renewables industry investors criticise UK low-carbon plan as short on investment pulling power
19 July 2009: The government envisages £150bn of investment will be  needed over the next 20 years: £7.5bn a year. New Energy Finance calls  the white paper “old wine in new bottles.” They point out that  investment in renewables fell from £6.8bn in 2007 to £4.5bn in 2008. Tom  Murley echoes this. JL on the solar feed-in tariff rates proposed: “It  might stimulate the market but it’s not going to push it toward the  explosive growth rates seen in countries like Germany.” The Vestas  Blades factory in Newport, Isle of Wight, is due to close at the end of  the month. It has become the symbol of UK renewables sector that is  “dangerously becalmed,” the Observer reports.
UK Government publishes consultation on a wide-ranging plan for creating a low-carbon Britain
15 July 2009: This would include the Department of Climate Change  and Energy (DECC) seizing control of the grid so as to favour connection  of renewables. En route to 34% greenhouse-gas reductions on 1990 levels  by 2020 (18% on 2008 levels), 40% of UK electricity would come from  renewables and nuclear, more than 30% from renewables (up from 5.5%),  29% from large-scale generation (wind and tidal), and just 2% from all  renewable microgeneration. 12% of heat would come from renewables, and  10% of road fuel from biofuels. No energy bill rises would happen before  2015, and by 2020 the add-on to bills would be an average of only 6%,  or £75 a year. £3.2bn will be invested by energy companies to improve  energy efficiency in homes.
UK Government proposes feed-in rates that are too low to attract serious investment in solar
15 July  2009: So I argue in debate with Energy Minister Lord Hunt, the energy  minister, re proposed UK feed-in tariff rates on BBC’s The World  Tonight. Proposed rates are 36.5p per kWh generation plus a 5p per kWh  export tariff for small residential, 26p +5p for installations over 100  kW. Hermann Scheer, father of the German feed-in tariff agrees. Lord  Hunt argues not, but emphasises that this is a consultation, and  decisions will come later – prior to the April 2010 introduction of the  tariff. Also discussed: are nuclear advocates in the Civil Service on a  renewables go-slow? I fear so, Lord Hunt says not.
My view: One day I hope it will be possible to congratulate a UK government without reservation on solar policy.
Whitehall hates solar panels because they give others the power to take decisions
10 July  2009: So says the new Daily Telegraph environment writer, Geoffrey Lean,  pointing out that politicians like to “think big.” So do civil  servants, he believes, who also like to think they know best. But they  don’t. They sanctioned the £1bn mixed oxide plant at Sellafield, for  example. It was supposed to produce 120 tons of nuclear fuel a year. It  managed 6.3 tons between its opening in 2001 and April 2009.
My  view: In my experience of Whitehall, I have come to fear that this is  true of some senior civil servants. But it certainly isn’t true of all.  Meanwhile, history isn’t destiny. Minds change. So long as we bear  witness, and have the courage to speak truth to power.
Relying on renewables is a pipedream, former Saudi oil boss says
21 June  2009: Former Saudi Aramco CEO Abdallah Jum’ah has told the Royal Academy  of Engineering that renewables can only ever manage a minute proportion  of world energy. The world has consumed only a trillion barrels of oil  out of an estimated endowment of 15 trillion, he insists. Oil is the  future.
My  view: We believe this at our peril. Western economies allowed  themselves to be duped by the investment banking industry, which  massively overstated its assets, and we cannot make the same mistake  with the oil industry.
German industrial giants support Desertec supergrid project
17  June 2009: Twenty big companies will pool their resources in a plan to  generate solar electricity in Africa in CSP plants, and transport it to  Europe. Led by Munich Re, and including RWE, EON, Siemens and Deutsche  Bank, their plan is to “put concrete measures on the table” within 2-3  years. The full scheme, costing €400bn (£337bn), could be fuelling  Europe within a decade, they say.
My  view: Yes, lets use the sun. But lets also make sure we maximise the  use of solar on buildings and scrubland in our cloudy north European  home countries
UK MPs make Commons solar power motion the most supported in Parliament
10 June  2009: 240 MPs spanning all major parties have now signed Early Day  Motion number 689, in support of solar PV in the UK, making it the most  popular Commons motion out of over 1,600 tabled to date in this  Parliamentary session. The weight of MP support for the motion reflects  the views of 1000’s of individuals and 100’s of organisations signed up  to the ‘We Support Solar’ campaign. Tabled by Colin Challen MP, Labour  Chair of the All-party Commons climate change group, the motion welcomes  the launch of the ‘We Support Solar’ campaign and calls on the  Government to overturn its negative treatment of solar PV in the 2008  Renewable Energy Strategy consultation.
BP CEO says solar PV won’t ever compete with traditional energy without a breakthrough in technology
14 May  2009: Tony Hayward tells a conference in California that “I think solar  is probably the most challenged of all of BP’s alternative energy  interests. It is not going to make the transition to be competitive with  more conventional power, the gap is too big.” There needs to be a  step-change in technology, he says.
My  view: This opinion is going to go down in history as a rival in  ridicule to the view of a past chief executive who predicted there would  one day be a market, after the passage of much time, for a very small  number of computers. Even in cloudy Britain I predict grid parity for  residential solar PV by 2013.
European PV industry says it can contribute 12% of EU electricity by 2020
1  October 2008: The European PV Industry Association (EPIA), which has a  history of very cautious estimates of industry growth versus real  achievement, announces its latest conclusion at a trade fair in  Valencia. 420 TWh would need to be generated to hit this target (i.e. a  total European electricity market of 3,500 TWh is assumed by 2020). In  this calculation, PV is at grid parity in 2010 in Spain, and most  countries not long thereafter. PV would be addressing 60-90 percent of  the market.

Tags: Solar PV 


Backlog of untagged selected nuclear log entries.
				January 1, 2000  Nuclear

UK government says nuclear operators must pay the first £1bn towards the cost of any accident.
23 January 2011: Currently their liability is capped at £140m: a sum  enshrined in EU law because nuclear operators can’t get insurance. The  EU is proposing to raise the cap to €700m and governments will be  allowed to add €500m if they wish. In other words Huhne wants the UK’s  cap to be the maximum allowed.
Chernobyl: now open to tourists …and 2,500 workers still clearing up radioactivity.
13 December 2010: Ukraine announces official tours of 1986 nuclear  disaster site. 2015 completion date of new sarcophagus for leaking  reactor. Guardian: “The plant itself, which kept generating power until  2000, still has 2,500 staff making the site safe, working in strict  shifts to minimise radiation exposure. Ukraine’s government said that it  hoped to complete a new sarcophagus for the exploded reactor by 2015.  The existing concrete structure is cracking and leaks radiation.”
Team France in disarray on nuclear, says the Economist.
2 December 2010: “Last December Abu Dhabi plumped for cheaper South  Korean models over French EPRs. China has agreed to buy two EPRs, but at  the same time has ordered four comparable AP1000 reactors offered by  Westinghouse Electric, an American rival owned by Toshiba of Japan.  India is discussing a deal for two French-built EPRs, but many customers  in poor or middle-income countries do not think that a little extra  safety is worth the hefty extra cost. It is rare for a plane to crash  into a nuclear power plant. In June a government-sponsored report  prompted the view that Areva, which is largely state-owned, needs about  €2 billion more capital to stay in the game.” And so on.
UK utilities warn that a carbon floor price is not enough for them to build new nuclear.
24 October 2010: FT: “Britain’s “big six” energy companies will this  week warn Chris Huhne, secretary of state for energy, that the  government’s proposed “floor price” for carbon emission permits is not  enough of an incentive for them to invest in new nuclear power stations.  Executives from the companies, including Centrica, EDF Energy and  Scottish Power, now owned by Iberdrola, are due to make their views  clear at a dinner with Mr Huhne on Wednesday.The industry has reached a  consensus position with all companies agreeing that some form of  additional incentive is required. Options range from a feed-in tariff to  guarantee the price for low-carbon electricity to payments to companies  as reward for having available generation capacity.
Germany’s energy giants agree to pay government €30bn for 12 year nuclear phaseout extension. 
6 September 2010: FT: “Germany’s 17 nuclear power stations will extend  their lifetimes from 32 to about 44 years, compared with an  international average span of 60 years. In return, the power generators  Eon, RWE, EnBW and Vattenfall will pay a nuclear-fuel rods tax of €2.3bn  until 2016, a charge that will turn into a contribution to fostering  renewable-energy sources in the years after. On top of the tax, the four  power companies will pay an annual €300m over the next two years and an  annual €200m from 2013 to 2016 into a fund which will invest in  renewable energy, according to officials in Berlin.”
French nuclear watchdog says EDF has persistent problems with Flamanville EPR containment liner.
30 August 2010: Bloomberg: “Faults in welds of the containment liner of  the Flamanville EPR, the utility’s first in France, were found during an  inspection in July, the Autorite de Surete Nucleaire said in an Aug. 27  report on its website. EDF officials weren’t immediately available for a  comment.“Welding difficulties caused by the ergonomics of the welder’s  post” were the cause of similar problems at the building site in 2008  and 2009 and treatment by EDF “was not performed correctly,” according  to the report. The agency also said EDF was slow in detecting “inferior  weld quality”.”  … EDF is developing a similar model in Taishan,  China, and plans more in Italy, the U.K. and U.S. The state-controlled  operator of France’s 58 nuclear reactors in July said the Normandy  reactor will cost 5 billion euros to develop, about 50 percent more than  initially estimated, and will be delayed by about two years to 2014. …  EDF started work at Flamanville in December 2007.”
UK nuclear reactor programme has fallen behind schedule over safety, the HSE admits.
25 August 2010: This development reinforces concerns that the first  reactor will not be built on time. Guardian: “The Health and Safety  Executive (HSE) said it would probably have to issue an “interim”  decision on the safety of the two new proposed reactor designs next  June, the deadline for its assessment programme. The regulator expects  significant chunks of extra work will remain before it can finally  approve or reject the designs, but did not say how long this would take.  …The HSE said the companies behind the designs – French consortium  Areva, EDF and US firm Westinghouse – had been repeatedly submitting  information which was incomplete and late. In turn, the companies are  blaming the regulator for not having sufficient resources to carry out  the work. … “Significant issues” are also flagged for Westinghouse’s  planned control and instrumentation systems to operate the reactor. The  company missed a June deadline to provide information on reactor  chemistry, “which does not help our confidence that Westinghouse will  meet future delivery dates”, said the HSE.”
KPMG says nuclear power “won’t happen” without government subsidy. 
18 July 2010: Britain’s new generation of nuclear power stations will  not be built if the Government refuses them any more support, a KPMG  report commissioned by RWE npower will say this week. It is still  uneconomic for utility companies to invest billions of pounds in nuclear  power, the report concludes.  The report will say a carbon “floor  price” is not enough for the big utilities to commit large capital  investments to the nuclear sector, and recommend that the Government  ought to introduce a variable premium tariff for all low-carbon  technologies – from nuclear to renewables. EDF and Centrica are planning  to build the first new British nuclear plant by 2017. A consortium of  RWE and E.ON intend to follow with their first by 2020.
RWE CEO says nuclear needs subsidies so it can be on a level playing field with renewables.
10 July 2010: Volker Beckers says he wants UK market mechanisms that  incentivise investments in renewable energy in onshore and offshore wind  and biomass to be extended to all low-carbon energy, including nuclear.  “We have different market mechanisms that need renovation to ensure  that there is a level playing field between all the various  technologies. I want to ensure that nuclear investments take place but  because of the current situation, investments either go into only  gas-fired power stations or the renewable sector. Only if you have a  level playing field do you leave it with the market powers to make the  right investment decision. Otherwise, if you have a stimulus for certain  technologies, all the investments go into one specific technology and  that would ultimately lead to a cluster risk.”
Vermont Senate votes to close a nuclear power plant when its licence expires in 2012.
25  February 2010. This on the grounds of aging problems: 3 radioactive  leaks, a burst pipe and a collapsed cooling tower. California took such  action in 1989, but no state has in the 20 years since. With its  original 40-year operating licence expired in two years, Entergy’s  Yankee plant in Vermont had applied for a 20-year extension to keep it  open once, as many of the US’s 103 nuclcear plants will have to do.
Michael Grunwald in Time magazine describes “Why Obama’s nuclear bet won’t pay off.”
18  February 2010: “If you want to understand why the U.S. hasn’t built a  nuclear reactor in three decades, the Vogtle power plant outside Atlanta  is an excellent reminder of the insanity of nuclear economics. The  plant’s original cost estimate was less than $1 billion for four  reactors. Its eventual price tag in 1989 was nearly $9 billion, for only  two reactors. But now there’s widespread chatter about a nuclear  renaissance, so the Southern Co. is finally trying to build the other  two reactors at Vogtle. The estimated cost: $14 billion. And you can be  sure that number is way too low, because nuclear cost estimates are  always way too low.”
Around 60% of Germans still favour nuclear reactor shutdowns.
11  February 2010: The current legal obligation is to phase out nuclear  reactors after 32 years of service. The latest public opinion polls show  around 60 per cent favouring the current phase-out legislation, passed  by the former coalition of Social Democrats and Greens. At least two of  the country’s 17 nuclear reactors would have to be shut down this year,  and nuclear reactors provide about a quarter of the country’s  electricity.
French nuclear industry in crisis as EDF and Areva go to war.
18  January 2010: EDF says Areva has halted uranium supplies and stopped  removing spent fuel for treatment in an increasingly bitter row over  their contractual relationship. The heads of the two state operators are  askingg Sarkozy to adjudicate. Areva supplies 68 per cent of the  uranium used in EDF’s reactors. EDF, which provides 77% of French  electricity from its nuclear plants, has stocks for several months.  The  row has been cited as one of the factors behind France’s failure to  secure the contract to build reactors in Abu Dhabi.
Areva weighs cheaper reactors after failure of Abu Dhabi bid.
15  January 2010: An internal review has been launched to assess whether to  reintroduce the simpler second-generation CPR1,000 reactors, which it  stopped building 20 years ago. “Safety standards in the US and Europe  would not allow a second-generation reactor to be built,” an Areva  executive acknowledges: but 20% of countries that would accept the lower  safety standards.
My view: Money first then, nuclear safety second. And how many nuclear  experts do they still have on staff who built one of these reactors  twenty years ago?
Eon and Centrica say they are less likely to build clean coal and new nuclear power plants after Copenhagen.
21 December 2009: This will mean higher energy prices, in the absence of an agreement helping the carbon price.
Managers at the Sellafield complex to be fined for exposing staff to radioactive contamination.
4  December 2009: A substantial penalty is expected from Carlisle crown  court following a successful criminal prosecution by the Health and  Safety Executive. This comes just a week after an eminent group of  scientists and military experts (a Pugwash Group led by General Sir Hugh  Beach) described the method for storing nuclear waste at the plant as  “ludicrous”: “100 tonnes of separated plutonium sitting in tin cans.”  Sellafield is now owned by a consortium comprising Areva, Amec and URS  Washington.
Health and Safety Executive has wide-ranging safety concerns about new nuclear reactor designs. 
27 November  2009: “We have identified a significant number of issues with the safety  features of the design that would first have to be progressed. If these  are not progressed satisfactorily then we would not issue a design  acceptance confirmation,” says a spokesman after a study of the latest  French EPR (Areva) and US AP1000 (Westinghouse) reactor designs. The  biggest issue is that the operationa and safety systems are not  separate. The best analogy might be a car in which if the steering  fails, the brakes might too. The HSE is independent from both government  and industry. It also professes to be understaffed for the nuclear  oversight role it has. The companies have until a reactor review in 2011  to comply.
UK government refuses to provide any details for 5 security incidents at nuclear plants last year.
22  November 2009: These were mentioned in the latest annual report of the  Office of Civil Nuclear Security, as is required by government  guidelines for incidents including “any unauthorised incursion on to the  premises”, “any incident occurring on the premises involving an  explosive or incendiary device”, “any damage to any building or  equipment on the premises which might affect the security of the  premises”, “any theft or attempted theft of any nuclear material” and  “any theft or attempted theft, or any loss or unauthorised disclosure,  of sensitive nuclear information”. But no details were given, and a  written parliamentary question has been given the blanket “not in the  national security interest” response.
The Economist describes fragility of EDF’s nuclear campaign in face of stretched finances.
19  November 2009: Having acquired British Energy and Constellation Energy,  it plans to build 11 new reactors (four in Britain, four in America, two  in China and one in France). It also plans to form consortia building  build four plants in Italy and bidding to build several in the United  Arab Emirates. But debt now stands at €37 billion ($53 billion) and  could rise to €65 billion by 2017-18, according to an HSBC report.
Incoming EDF boss says the French nuclear industry isn’t working, and needs a complete rethink.
18  November 2009: Henri Proglio, who takes over as executive chairman in a  few days, tells the French daily Les Echos he wants to “have a French  nuclear industry that works. That means that we have to rethink the  whole industry”. He criticises the multi-billon euro reactor contract in  Abu Dhabi and says the creation of Areva was a “mistake”, and that EDF  should have a stake in Areva’s reactor business.
Vattenfall drops plans to sell parts of the Swedish electricity grid to finance UK nuclear plants amid a storm of criticism.
12 November  2009: The utility had been one of the favourites to build nuclear plants  but now says it has no such plans and won’t even discuss the  possibility for at least a year.
Nuclear safety authorities from France, Finland and UK ask Areva to modify its EPR reactor design.
6  November 2009: The concerns are over the “independence principle”: there  is too high a degree of interactivity between the control and safety  systems, according to the three countries’ regulators. Siemens has  decided to quit its partnership with the reator designer, Areva.
Almost one third of EDF’s 58 reactors have been out of service of late – either for maintenance or for other reasons.
4  November 2009: As a consequence, for the second year running, France  will have to import electricity at peak hours during the winter to avoid  the risk of black-outs.
Secret UK government promise to nuclear industry to tax families to provide subsidy. 
19  October 2009: The Guardian reveals that the government is doing what it  promised not to. The planned levy would aim to guarantee a floor price  for carbon of €30 and ideally €40 in the ETS. This would add £44 to the  average £500 electricity bill.
Finnish Olkiluoto reactor is further delayed. 
19  October 2009: It should have cost €3bn (£2.72bn) and been working this  year, but will now cost at least €5.3bn and miss its revised completion  date of mid-2012. The latest delay involves Finland’s nuclear safety  regulator halting welding on the reactor and criticising poor oversight  by the sub-contractor, supplier and TVO. TVO and Areva are now locked in  arbitration over responsibility for the overun.
50th birthday celebrations at France’s Cadarache nuclear facility marred by plutonium leaks.
16  October 2009: Government ministers and officials have to cancel their  visits to the flagship facility after kilograms of unrecorded plutonium  are discovered as a result of years of sloppy fuel manufacturing.  Scientists had been expecting to find 8 kg during the dismantling of a  44 year old plutonium workshop, but have found at least 22 kg and this  may be as much as 39 once the work is complete.
Ex Minister offered top job with EDF not a year after clearing it to buy the UK’s nuclear plants.
13 September 2009: When John Hutton was Business Secretary  less than a year ago he signed off on the £12.5bn deal that handed  British Energy’s eight nuclear power plants to French government-owned  EDF. His appointment will need to be cleared by the independent Advisory  Committee on Business Appointments, which advises the Prime Minister,  but they rarely oppose revolving-door appointments.
CBI urges UK government to shift away from wind to nuclear power
12 July 2009: Whitehall should rein in its ambitions on the proportion  of renewables in the energy mix generally, Deputy DG John Cridland says.  The government is aiming too high on wind.
Ecotricity takes EDF to the High Court for stealing their Green Britain idea in greenwash ads. 
7 July 2009: EDF, who argue against even 20% renewables in the  UK energy mix, are driving vans around the UK, painted with the Union  Jack, coloured completely green.
France forced to import UK electricity as heatwave shuts a third of its reactors
3 July 2009: EDF’s stations are generating their lowest  level of electricity for 6 years. 14 of France’s 19 nuclear power plants  are inland, and the law does not allow them to discharge water at a  temperature of more than 24C into waterways.
Nuclear safety fears grow as the NII seconds 12 reviewers from firms pitching to build reactors.
26  June 2009: The Nuclear Installations Inspectorate has seconded staff  from Bechtel, CH2M Hill, and Amec, companies hoping to build the new  generation of nuclear reactors. The NII hopes that the hires will get  the review of designs back on schedule for mid 2011, and that any  conflicts of interest can be dealt with in secondees’ contracts.  Technical staff have also been hired from Areva, one of the two  companies offering designs for new reactors. The NII says they will not  be allowed to work on the Areva designs.
Tally of UK nuclear leaks and other safety events in the last 5 years revealed: 1,750.
21  June 2009: There were 1,750 leaks, breakdowns, or other safety ‘events’  at British nuclear plants between 2001 and 2008, according to a recent  report from the government’s chief nuclear inspector to the Health and  Safety Executive (HSE). Mike Weightman’s Nuclear Installations  Inspectorate (NII) report, obtained by the Observer under the Freedom of  Information Act, says about half were serious enough “to have had the  potential to challenge a nuclear safety system.” The NII, charged with  overseeing all such problems, has an acute staff shortage. The HSE for  its part wants to create “exclusions” in its assessment of new reactor  designs, in order to “streamline” the process.
Thorp will probably have to be mothballed for four years, operating company admits
19 May 2009:  Sellafield Ltd admits its £1.8bn nuclear reprocessing plant cannot meet  NII orders for operation as a result of continuing technical problems.  This will cost millions of pounds. Two of the plants have been breaking  down repeatedly, and the third has been closed after a rise in radiation  levels. Work has started on a new £100m evaporator, but it is behind  schedule, and probably won’t come on stream before 2013. Germany may sue  when spent fuel is not returned reprocessed. Closure of the plant would  slow decommissioning of British nuclear plants, and remove much of the  £70bn needed for that process, which reprocessing at Thorp was supposed  to raise a good deal of.
New nuclear scares threaten UK nuclear sites
17 May 2009: A  radioactive leak, undiscovered for 14 months, was found in January at  Sellafield the day before a visit by the Prime Minister, so Nuclear  Management Partners (who run the site) have recently confessed. At  “level two”, this was the worst leak since a 2005 leak for which BNFL  was fined £500,000. A board of enquiry concludes the leak went  un-noticed because “managerial controls over the line were insufficient  and there was inadequate inspection.” Meanwhile, elsewhere on the site  two containers of highly radioactive material have gone missing. NMP  says it is most likely that “the anomaly lies within the accounting  procedures”, and the lost containers are still somewhere on site.  “Environmental and public safety has not been compromised,” they say.
Areva attacked on safety professionalism by Finnish nuclear regulator
10 May 2009:  Jukka Laaksonen, director general of STUK, Finland’s radiation and  nuclear safety authority, says in a letter to Areva CEO Anne Lauvergeon  that some of her supposed experts have a “lack of professional  knowledge” that is slowing the Olkiluoto 3 plant down. Areva says this  won’t cause additional delays, but admits the reactor – already 3 years  overdue – still has no definite opening date.
Drigg nuclear dump operators use local newspaper ads to ask old workers what was put in the site 
14 February 2009: The new operators, LLWR, has found that records are  completely inadequate, and are looking for workers from the 1960s  through 80s who might be able to help them fill in the holes, so to  speak.
Cracks begin to appear in the French nuclear consensus
26 September 2008: The government report on radioactivity of  groundwater under France’s reactors is due next month. Areva has  promised to shift the military dump that may have been responsible for  the older radioactivity found in water below Tricastin after 75 kg of  untreated uranium leaked in July. Polls show that although two thirds do  not think there should be a reduction of nuclear power, 49% of those  under 35 believe the share should be reduced because of the dangers  involved. The independent nuclear inspectorate created two years ago  posts all nuclear incidents on its website ….and there are 800 a year.  Says an official: “people are beginning to realise that incidents are  frequent.”
French government orders a radiological assessment of groundwater around all 58 nuclear reactors 
18 July 2008: This after a second leak is reported at another site in  southern France, and an unexplained older contamination is found in the  groundwater at the spill at the Tricastin site. The second site is at  Romains-sur-Isere, another site run by an Areva subsidiary, where a pipe  is found to have burst long ago. Radioactivity has not leaked beyond  the site. The Nuclear Safety Authority (ASN) accuses Areva of “human  negligence” and “dysfunctional” processes. Ecology minister Jean-Louis  Borloo says the investigation is because “I do not want people to think  we are hiding anything,” and Areva insists there is no threat. However,  ASN’s findings have been passed to the prosecutor’s office, which may  decide a criminal investigation is required. Borloo says there were 86  level-one incidents in France last year and 114 in 2006.
Inquiry to be launched into claims Sellafield kept body parts of dead workers
18 April  2007: The UK government announces an independent inquiry into claims  that body parts of workers who died in suspicious circumstances at  Sellafield and other nuclear plants were taken without consent, over a  period back to the 1960s, for medical examination. BNFL admits this but  says the practice stopped in the 1990s.
My view: And the results were what? And the reactions of the bereaved have been what?

 


Backlog of untagged selected log entries for finance.
				January 1, 2000  Finance

Ecotricity’s bond scheme applications total £15m, a 50 per cent oversubscribed offer. 
20 December 2010. 1,800 people had applied by the 10 December deadline,  in sums ranging from £500 to 500,000. The company is planning another in  2011 for those who missed out and those who wish to invest more. The  funds will allow the first solar farm to be constructed in a few weeks.
Krugman fears that G20 belt-tightening will mean a third global depression.
28 June 2010: “This third depression will be primarily a failure of  policy. Around the world – most recently at the weekend’s deeply  discouraging G20 meeting – governments are obsessing about inflation  when the real threat is deflation, preaching the need for  belt-tightening when the real problem is inadequate spending…. It’s  almost as if the financial markets understand what policymakers  seemingly don’t: that while long-term fiscal responsibility is  important, slashing spending in the midst of a depression, which deepens  that depression and paves the way for deflation, is actually  self-defeating. ….So I don’t think this is really about Greece, or  indeed about any realistic appreciation of the trade-offs between  deficits and jobs. It is, instead, the victory of an orthodoxy that has  little to do with rational analysis, whose main tenet is that imposing  suffering on other people is how you show leadership in tough times. And  who will pay the price for this triumph of orthodoxy? The answer is,  tens of millions of unemployed workers, many of whom will go jobless for  years, and some of whom will never work again.”
E&Y to be investigated for its role in approval of Lehman’s hiding of debt.
16 June 2010: UK accountancy regulator how it could have allowed the  bank to hide $50bn off its books. One industry expert describes the  development as the “tip of the iceberg”, to be followed by a potential  flood of legal claims against E&Y. Just like the ratings agencies,  the paying of audit firms for an opinion seems to be fatally flawed,  when clients can always move to a firm with a more favourable view.   Nils Pratley: “Perhaps we can proceed to the wider debate about how  auditors are paid. At the moment, auditors are paid by the company – the  people they are meant to be policing. That seems a straightforward  conflict of interest. Plenty of alternative models have been suggested.  It’s time they were properly examined.”
Banks are back to business as usual. 
13 June 2010: After a trillion pounds of tax-payer support and a  trillion pounds of lost output, says Will Hutton, “our banking system is  as disconnected from real wealth generation as ever. The return to  business as usual – bonuses, trading in derivatives, the organising of  banking as an exercise in which money is made from money – is  breathtaking and depressing. And so, given the recent buoyant profit  figures reported by our banks, is the easy money.”
Goldman accused by FSA of hindering probe into financial crisis. 
7 June 2010: The FSA speaks of an “abysmal” response to requests for  information: an attempt to “stonewall” and “obfuscate” over months of  “mischief making.” It says it has issued a subpoena to compel the bank  to provide documents and executives for interviews as other banks have  done.
Obama prepares for what he calls a “big fight with the banks” with limits on their trading.
21 January 2010: The day after a shock defeat for the Democrats in  the Massachusetts Senatorial by-election, Obama makes a populist move on  the same day Goldman Sachs announces mountainous bonus payouts.  Proprietary trading operations will now be limited. “We’ve got a  financial regulatory system that is completely inadequate to control the  excessive risks and irresponsible behaviour of financial players all  around the world,” Obama says. “People are angry and they’re frustrated.  From their perspective, the only thing that happens is that we bail out  the banks… We’re about to get in a big fight with the banks.” The new  banking regulation will be called “the Volcker Rule,” after its  architect in the White House, Paul Volcker, the former Chairman of the  Federal Reserve under Carter and Reagan.  It prohibits any bank holding  deposits guaranteed by the government from operating hedge funds,  private equity funds, or from proprietary trading. On top of this will  come a limit on the size of any bank.
Obama announces a levy that will recover $90bn from the 50 largest US financial institutions.
14 January 2010: The President calls the bankers’ bonuses “obscene” and  tells them: “I’d urge you to cover the costs of the rescue not by  sticking it to your shareholders or your customers or your citizens but  by rolling back bonuses.” He urges other countries to follow suit.   Obama needs to levy the fee to help cover a $117bn loss to the US  treasury from the $700bn TARP bailout, and wants it in place by June. He  intends to apply a levy of 15 basis points, or 0.15%, on the  liabilities of 50 large financial institutions with assets of more than  $50bn. Jamie Dimon, JP Morgan CEO: “Using tax policy to punish people is  a bad idea. All businesses tend to pass their costs on to customers.”
£40bn bonus payouts to bankers show government efforts to curb excess have made no difference.
8 January 2010: The $65bn handout by the world’s biggest banks means  they have elected to take the UK Treasury’s 50% tax hit themselves  rather than pass it on to their workers. An Illinois pension fund has  argued in a lawsuit filed yesterday that the payments harm shareholders.  Goldman Sachs maintains the lawsuit is “completely without merit”.
BIS invites top bankers to Basle to discuss resurgance of “excessive” risk behaviour in banks. 
6 January 2010: The Bank of International Settlements – the central  banks’ bank – says “financial firms are returning to the aggressive  behaviour that prevailed during the pre-crisis period”. Among those  invited were the CEOs of Goldman Sachs and JP Morgan Chase, and they do  not plan to attend.
Fed chief says tougher regulation is still needed.
3 January 2010: “Borrowers chose, and were extended, mortgages that  they could not be expected to service in the longer term,” Ben Bernanke  says. “This description suggests that regulatory and supervisory  policies, rather than monetary policies, would have been more effective  means of addressing the run-up in house prices.”
Governments have spent $10.8 trillion on the bank bailout so far.
16 December 2009: This is an average $10,000 for every one of the c 1  billion people in the richest countries (but 50,000 per person in the  UK). $9.8 trillion has been spent by governments in the rich nations,  $3.6 in the US (25.8% of GDP), $2.4 [£1.5tn] in the UK (94.4% of GDP),  and 3.2 in the rest. China and other emerging nations have spent $1.6  trillion.
US banks are now hoarding over $1trillion cash, having risen $200bn over the last 2 months.
13 December 2009: “Nothing like this has happened in previous  recessions, going back to the 1960′s. The Banks are not lending and  until they lend, there will be no recovery in the USA.” “The situation  is getting worse.  The forecasts and announcements of the end of the  crisis are premature.”
Time is up for short-term thinking in capitalism, Al Gore and David Blood write in the FT.
26 November 2009: “Behavioural economists believe they have the  answer: our brains are hard-wired to think short-term because evolution  has rewarded serial short-term successes such as avoiding predators and  other dangers that faced our ancestors. Their survival ensured our  existence – but predisposed us to the same kind of short-term thinking.  As a result, even though our world is very different from theirs,  long-term decision-making remains the exception, not the rule.” They  commend the work of the Stiglitz Commission. Asset managers are   compensated for maximising value short-term, and this is dysfuntional:  “this approach to investing is not investing at all. It is trading, or –  at its worst – gambling. These asset managers are betting that they can  anticipate the behaviour of other short-term investors and move assets  more quickly than the herd.”
Dubai bond default causes FTSE’s biggest fall in 8 months. 
26 November 2009: Dubai World, the huge developer that has built glass  towers and indoor ski slopes in the desert with billions borrowed from  banks around the world, calls for a sandstill agreement on a big part of  its debts. Stock market falls around the world on worries that banks  have big exposure.
Standard and Poors warns that most global banks are still unsafe.
24 November 2009: Nearly all fail the 8% safety level under the  S&P risk-adjusted capital method, meaning they lack sufficient  capital to cover trading and investment exposure, risking further  downgrades in the 18 months ahead. Unless they strengthen capital set  aside, they risk downward ratings adjustments.
Audit giants face increasing claims from investors for signing off accounts ahead of the crash.
25 October 2009: The number of claims against them is multiplying,  and they extend well beyond Madoff. They have a sorry record indeed. PWC  sign offs include Northern Rock and Lansbanki. Deloite’s include RBS  and Bear Stearns. KPMG’s include HBOS and Kaupthing. Ernst and Young’s  include Lehman Brothers. They charged millions for audit and non-audit  consultancy alike.
Wall Street is designing yet more complex derivatives, this time involving life insurance policies. 
6 September 2009: Bankers are now buying “life settlements,” life  insurance policies that sick and elderly people sell for cash — $400,000  for a $1 million policy, say, depending on the life expectancy of the  insured person. These they then securitize (package in bundles of  hundreds or thousands) to make bonds that they can sell on to big  pension funds and other investors. The latter then sit and hope the  people with the insurance die earlier rather than later, because earlier  means more profit. Wall Street trousers fees for creating the bonds,  reselling them and subsequently trading them. With $26 trillion of life  insurance policies in force in the United States, only a small fraction  of policy holders would need to sell to make a $500 billion market. The  United States residential mortgage securities market reached a peak of  $941 billion in 2005, but is down to $169 billion so far this year. Some  banks are also repackaging their money-losing securities into  higher-rated ones, called re-remics (re-securitization of real estate  mortgage investment conduits). Morgan Stanley says at least $30 billion  in residential re-remics have been done this year.
FSA chairman says “socially useless” banks must have bonuses taxed.
27 August 2009: In an interview with prospect magazine Adair  Turner (ex McKinsey consultant and vice-chairman of Merrill Lynch)  questions whether the City has grown too large, and calls much of its  activity “socially useless.” He also backs taxes on financial  transactions – Tobin taxes.  Tobin’s idea, outlined in 1972 after the  break-up of the fixed exchange rates, was designed to limit the damage  speculators could cause. At the 2005 G7 Gleneagles summit development  campaigners proposed it be used to finance development aid. 0.005% on  currency transactions would raise $30-60bn a year. Some $912tn (£561tn)  is traded annually in foreign exchange.

Islamic, Jewish and Christian leaders launch campaign to restrict usury 
22 July 2009: London Citizens, an organisation including trade unions,  voluntary organisations and religious groups, seeks a law to cap  interest at 8%, and today will march on RBS to start the campaign. They  point out that ancient Rome capped interest at just over 8% in a rule  that lasted 1,000 years.
My view: 8% ought to be fine for anyone – especially when the banks are  buying the money at 0.25%, or even getting it free, before lending on.
Nomura Research Institute chief economist says west is misunderstanding effects of recession on businesses
5 July 2009. Richard Koo has analysed Japan’s credit crunch, when Japan  suffered a $15tn collapse in asset and share prices, equal to around 3  years of GDP. Companies swung rapidly from profit maximisers to debt  minimisers, and this deepened the downturn. The UK’s collapse is £2tn,  so far, equal to 18 months of GDP, and companies are becoming debt  minimisers en masse. Governments should spend and borrow far more than  anyone in America and Europe is contemplating, Koo argues, worrying  about debt later. Will Hutton writes  new banks will be needed, and old  ones broken up, in order to get capital moving.
As reforms run into the ground, the City seems to be returning to business-as-usual
25 June 2009:  Banks are hiring again, telling their staff they can expect a record  year for bonuses. Barclays, Nomura and others are trying via headhunters  to hire star staff away from other banks who can’t pay big bonuses. The  International Swaps and Derivatives Association, and hedge funds, are  lobbying hard against reform. As things stand it looks as though even  the riskier activities may remain more or less as before.
Academy set up that encourages teenagers to leave school to try and become tycoons
10 May  2009: Dragon’s Den judge and entrepreneur Peter Jones funds a National  Enterprise Academy (jointly with government), with a pilot intake of 28  teenagers. He originally wanted to call it the “Tycoon’s Academy,”  rather suggesting that the values will be those portrayed on The  Dragon’s Deen and The Apprentice. He plans to bring “tycoon teaching” to  thousands via a qualification he has devised with Edexcel the exam  group, to be taught at further education colleges around the country.
Gillian Tett’s book describes the effort made by the banking elite at “idealogical domination”
25  April 2009: Elites do this to maintain power, the trained social  anthropologist, now FT star journalist, argues in her book. They decide  what is talked about and what is not. There was a major “social silence”  of this kind around the epidemic growth of derivatives, and so the  practitioners began to view themselves as detached from society, like  the inhabitants of Plato’s cave. The crisis was foreseen by a few,  including Tett. A veteran financier, Felix Rohatyn,[8] warned back in  the early 1990s that derivatives were “financial hydrogen bombs built on  personal computers by 26-year-olds with MBAs.” In a review in the FT,  Howard Davies describes Tett’s thesis as a small group of “quants” at J.  P. Morgan inventing credit derivatives – CDOs, CLOs and so on – but  greedy people in other banks who then misunderstood and misused them,  leading to the disaster.
Former IMF chief economist says the US has been in the hold of a financial oligarchy
15 April  2009: In the years running up to the crisis, there was a “quiet coup”,  akin to the stranglehold often achieved by business elites in emerging  countries. Simon Johnson, writing in Atlantic Monthly, is now a  professor at the Sloan School. Says the FT’s Martin Wolf, the US is  “caught between the elite’s fear of bankruptcy and the public’s loathing  of bailouts.” Decisive restructuring is needed, he says: core financial  institutions must be rendered credibly solvent, and none can remain too  big to fail. “That is not capitalism, that is socialism.”
 
Many banks still don’t know the extent of their most toxic “assets”
2  April 2009: Default rates on credit card and car debt are bound to soar  as the job losses work through the system. So too will corporate  defaults. How can banks know the value of these assets when the  mathematical model they used for valuation in recent years has proven to  be flawed (the Copula model: it is based on data from the credit  bubble, and masks risk), and when there is now no trading, no market  worth speaking of? Take RBS and Lloyds, who have a collective £585bn of  assets insured by the government. Credit Suisse estimates they face  £105bn of losses. Around the world, banks have so far written down  assets totalling around $1tn. The IMF estimates the final writedown will  be $2.2tn. This means that banks are still routinely valued  optimistically.

At the annual World Economic Forum, “Davos Man” is humbled
29 January 2009: In 2007, the air was full of optimism. In 2008,  business leaders worried about inflation. This year, gloom is pervasive.  Wen Jiabao and Vladimir Putin mock western leaders. Wen rails against  the “blind pursuit of profit.” Putin reminds them that last year they  talked of the US economy’s “fundamental stability and cloudless  prospects.” Meanwhile, trust in business is now at 38% in the US, down  from 58% the previous year, a survey finds. It also shows that only 49%  of Americans think the free market should be allowed to function  independently. With very few exceptions, bankers stay away from Davos  this year.

 









My most recent commentaries


Support the solar revolution: JL in the Telegraph.
5 Sep 2011
“Green entrepreneur Jeremy Leggett advocates following China and Germany’s move    towards investment in solar power now that start-up costs are falling    drastically.”


US solar bankruptcies: a shakeout, not a meltdown.
2 Sep 2011
Reports  of the PV industry’s death “have been exaggerated”, writes Ed Crooks in the FT.  “As  Jeremy Leggett, chairman of Solarcentury, a British solar equipment  company, says: “It’s the inevitable shake-out of an industry that is  coming of age”.” High profile bankruptcies in August: Evergreen, and Solyndra.


“The astounding potential of a solar energy tipping point”.
15 Jul 2011
A Treehugger.com editorial blog based on a 2 minute video: “Once you get to the interview with Jeremy Leggett, he says something very simple, but very  profound—as soon as people see solar energy at work, they want to see  more of it.”


Action is needed on “unburnable carbon” by every sector in the financial chain.
14 Jul 2011
In particular, regulators should require reporting of reserves and potential CO2  emissions by listed companies and those applying for listing. They  should aggregate and publish this data. My Guardian blog on the CarbonTracker report.


Calling for a solar revolution and trying to interest the financial sector: a tough call.
11 Jul 2011
“In the heart of the Amazon rainforest, I daydreamed about the flight of capital from carbon to solar.” It was a long time ago, and there is a long way to go. An account of my hopes in Sun&Wind Energy magazine.


Systemic risk blindness accounts carbon “assets” with zero risk of stranding.
11 Jul 2011
My comment to Business Green: “The lesson from the credit crunch is that the entire shooting match can  be based entirely on dysfunctional assumptions. We are  dealing with an analogous scenario in the energy markets.”


“Rise of the radical”: today’s outlier ideas may soon become inescapable.
1 Jul 2011
“The time is approaching when hanging on the familiar notions of oil dependency, the big book of banking and growth at any price will no longer be workable. We may be obliged to rewrite the rules – all of them.” My latest column in Sublime.


Petroleum Review publishes a guest editorial appealing for action on peak oil risk.
1 Jun 2011
The oil industry trade journal entitles my article, summarising the work and conclusions of the UK Industry Taskforce on Peak Oil and Energy Security, “High probability risk with high consequences”.


German nuclear phaseout: “easier than many think”.
30 May 2011
So I argue in debate with Malcolm Grimston on BBC World Service News Hour. Also printed as an opinion on the BBC News website.


Regeneration is best done through localisation.
30 May 2011
A Sublime magazine column by Jeremy Leggett argues that there is huge scope for individual and community action to change the world.


“An introduction to our guest editor”
20 May 2011
Business Green: Meet author, entrepreneur and venture capitalist Jeremy Leggett.


“Greenest government ever: but so far only in target setting”
20 May 2011
Business Green guest editor Jeremy Leggett fears the coalition’s emerging green policy record could end up worse than its predecessor’s.


“I thought many others would feel the same”
20 May 2011
….”but that proved to be naïve”. James Murray and Jeremy Leggett discuss peak oil, Damascene Conversions, and the realities of running a green business. Business Green.


“Head to head: Does the UK need nuclear power?”
19 May 2011
In light of the disaster at the Fukushima Daiichi plant, Mark Lynas and Jeremy Leggett give their opinions in The Environmentalist.


“Cameron falls short of his green promise”.
18 May 2011
The coalition’s record is starting to look worse than their predecessors, I write in the FT.


“Can businesses justify renewable energy?” Yes.
18 May 2011
BigpictureTV on You-Tube:  A few minutes on why it is becoming much easier to justify renewables projects in the business world now.



MY COMMENTARY ARCHIVE

View the Commentaries archive

My recent tweets















Copyright ©  Jeremy Leggett's Triple Crunch Log | Admin


Log in 





