URL to article: http://blogs.alternet.org/refugee/2011/08/23/did-fracking-cause-the-virginia-earthquake/?page=comments

An earthquake occurred on April 24, 1758 that affected sections of Washington. “Its probable center was near Annapolis, Maryland, and it was felt into Pennsylvania. An earthquake in March 1828 was felt over a wide area, including seven Eastern States and the District of Columbia. Although no damage occurred, it was reported to be ‘violent’ in D.C. and Baltimore, Maryland. John Quincy Adams, then President of the United States, left the following account in his diary of the occurrence as he observed the shock at the White House:“March 9, 1828. There was this evening the shock of an earthquake, the first which I ever distinctly noticed at the moment when it happened. I was writing in this book, when the table began to shake under my hand and the floor under my feet. The window shutters rattled as if shaken by the wind, and there was a momentary sensation as of the heaving of a ship on the waves. It continued about two minutes, then ceased. It was about eleven at night. I immediately left writing, and went to my bedchamber, where my wife was in bed, much alarmed.”Here are some dates of earthquakes that impacted the nation’s capital: April 29, 1852, August 1861, September 1884, October 1885, May 1897, February 1925, and November 1935.

The Virginia Earthquake occurred to fulfilled a two fold purpose.  The first is that is is a wake up call to the East Coast that the Earth is not a planet that is fixed in a solid mass with liquid oceans, lakes and rivers.  It is something that has movement and strength to that movement that is beyond mans capacity to control.  Overboard mankind hating environmental zealots would like us to believe we are responsible for creating earthquakes.  I do not see the evidence that this is true.  I do see an increase in the occurrences of earthquakes worldwide.We have seen the great earthquake in Japan, and earthquakes elsewhere that have unleashed the energy into the waters causing deadly Tsunami waves.  In Japan there is the lingering destruction of unleashed radioactivity from man-made structures.  Both the east coast and the west coast of the US now have experienced earthquakes of large proportion.  We do have fault-lines and have known of their existence for decades, and longer.  If we build in a flood plane that has been dry for hundred years, it is still a flood plane.  If we build on a fault line we risk the end result of an earthquake.  Volcanoes do come alive again even if they appear dormant.  We do see the foolishness of building in potentially hazardous locations.This aside, Congress was in recess and POTUS was putting in MV.  Where they lucky at the timing or was they gone because whoever caused the earthquake wanted to test it when the government was not in session.  Oops, that's a conspiracy theory that I do not believe most people would lend any credence to.The second purpose of the earthquake is to make this nation aware that even the seats of our government could be in jeopardy should an earthquake occur with an angrier attitude.This should be noted that it is a wake up call to this nation as to how far we have strayed from our purpose as endowed upon us by our Creator.  We kowtow to every idol, every foreign religion, every form of apostasy, every form of defiance against God, every whim of lust, and we then condemn and hold in contempt those who do serve the Truth and those who stand against the evils of this world.This is One nation under God.  He could raise up another to take our place.  How dare we stand against Him, His Word, His Law, and His people.

Fracing done correctly no more causes earthquakes than pumping oil causes volcanoes.  the Eco-nuts in this world use petroleum products every day, and then go out and try with their uninformed protests, etc. to kill the very industry they all rely on for transportation, heating, cooling (electricity) etc. go to  http://www.ranken-energy.com/P...  it shows you exactly what you all need fossil fuel for, or at least 144 of the over 6000 uses for it. Either stop using petroleum products completely, (good luck with that!) or be qiuet and find something else  to rave on about. Everything worthwhile comes at a cost, but this is overkill by eco-freaks. go learn some geology and petroleum engineering before you speak about that which you know nothing about.

This article is beyond description, to put it mildly. The total lack of understanding, education, and thought of what is really involved, not to mention I do not think your understanding of what is involved in fracking, chemically is very good. Wait let me restate that, it is beyond stupid! Stop reading the idiots comments in the Huffington Post, the last time a fact appeared on that site was, well never!!! To think a few million gallons of water is going to cause a several trillion tons of rock to move around 100 miles away, sorry did you buy the bridge for sale too????Do a little math instead of just being a  fool. The "earthquakes" caused by fracking are only detectable by very sensitve equipment, a fault line is ancient beyond belief and it is going to move occasionally, that is way it is a fault line, that is why the continents float over the earth liquid core! The reason the continents have moved over the eons and caused fault lines is because granite is lighter than the magma. The continents are like boats, very large, very heavy boats, with seams!!!!!

Industry scientists are real scientists with real degrees from real technical universities.  Sorry, skeptics, but they do know what they are talking about. Fracing does not cause earthquakes.  If the people disposing of the frac water use a well that is drilled into a fault zone, the fluid can lubricate the fault and cause a small quake.  Frac fluid does not contain toxic chemicals like benzene.  There are small amounts of chemicals and other materials that you can find in your own home.  Guar gum, citric acid, potassium chloride, and isopropanol are commonly used: these are in products you use or consume in your home, like deodorant, ice cream, salt substitutes, and beverages.  Also there is no way that a frac job in West Viriginia would affect a fault zone over 100 miles away.  I could go on with many more facts, but people who have their minds made up can/t be swayed by facts.

"Industry scientists say" blah blah blah.  Puppet goons have been lying to the public ever since they started getting paid.  Of course frakking is causing earthquakes.  Big "DUH."  The energy industry has no problem destroying the planet for money.

