http://www.travelandlivingchannel.com/virginia-earthquake-2011.html

		http://www.travelandlivingchannel.com/virginia-earthquake-2011.html#comments

Virginia Earthquake 2011 – 5.8 magnitude earthquake shook the center of the Virginia Mid-Atlantic, sending shock waves up and down the east coast through Washington, DC, New York, and always in Concord, NH, and Toronto, Canada .

According to the Survey United States Geological Survey (USGS), the earthquake occurred at 13:51 pm at a depth of 3.7 miles. The earthquake was centered 27 miles east of Charlottesville, Virginia, near the town of Mineral in Louisa County, Virginia Earthquake 2011

Virginia Earthquake 2011 lasted up to 30 seconds.

Minutes after the earthquake, USGS Director Marcia McNutt – who have seen the fall of objects from the shelves of his office – has warned that the vibration may not be over.

There were no immediate reports of damage in Virginia Earthquake 2011. However, shipping times Richmond reports that the police began to receive calls from any property damage after the event.

Earthquake is not far from the plant Dominion Virginia Power North Anna nuclear power. The earthquake knocked out power, but utility to manually shut down two nuclear units without incident and the damage was visible, the Richmond Times Dispatch.

“We lost power on site, but all the diesel generators are operating,” Dominion spokesman Richard Zuercher said that 30 minutes after the earthquake. “Everything seems to work very well.”

William Harper, an employee of the city of minerals in Louisa County, reported “some damage to a building because of Virginia Earthquake 2011” in the municipal offices for the paper as well.

http://www.travelandlivingchannel.com/virginia-earthquake-2011.html/feed

http://www.travelandlivingchannel.com/japan-earthquake-magnitude.html

		http://www.travelandlivingchannel.com/japan-earthquake-magnitude.html#comments

Japan Earthquake Magnitude – Several countries in the Pacific, South Asia, Latin America and North America also raised tsunami warnings. Places that have issued warnings include Japan, Taiwan, Indonesia, Russia, New Zealand, Philippines, Hawaii and Chile.

The quake struck at a depth of approximately15 miles from the epicenter 240 miles northeast of Tokyo. Within two hours 4-10 m high tsunami hit the east coast of Japan, sweeping away cars and boats inside. The structures have been damaged by the earthquake were still damaged and washed away by the tsunami.

Fire in several places along the coast, caused by broken gas lines, the structures were also burned. A large fire has also affected the oil refinery in Ichihara Chiba Cosmo City, near the capital. According to the Prime Minister, Naoto Kan, nuclear power plants were not affected. The Japanese government has sent troops to the affected Japan Earthquake Magnitude areas.

Arlyn Kobori, who lives in Saitama Prefecture, located in the northern part of Greater Tokyo, which is very near the epicenter, said that strong aftershocks continued for many hours after the great Japan Earthquake Magnitude. Water and gas were cut at home. Kobori said it was the most powerful quake she had felt in Japan.

“My son was about to leave for work, but the earthquake struck, before he was able to leave the house.” Kobori said. “We crawled under the table several times aftershocks kept coming and would not stop. “Kobori said she feared for her husband is not home, but with night and darkness creeps in Japan Earthquake Magnitude.

http://www.travelandlivingchannel.com/japan-earthquake-magnitude.html/feed

http://www.travelandlivingchannel.com/earthquake-in-virginia-today.html

		http://www.travelandlivingchannel.com/earthquake-in-virginia-today.html#comments

Earthquake in Virginia Today – East Coast is not an earthquake hot zone in those days. And Virginia is not sitting on an active seismic faults. It was an earthquake in the hot zone from 2 to 300 years. So what caused the earthquake in Virginia today?

Well, because it’s “blame the scars” left at that time, probably because the pressure can build up there and cause these earthquakes occur.

“We just have to see pressure buildup and release of these scars,” Karen Fischer, seimologist from Brown University, said. “There is much debate about exactly what is happening there, and exactly how that great earthquakes occur in such a zone of the crust.”

While earthquakes are less frequent on the east coast, but colder and firmer crust found on the West Coast, shock travel further and faster, so my sister and at least one East Coast writer of our felt the earthquake very clearly all the way to New York City.

So it is certainly stronger than many residents have probably experienced. In fact, the largest earthquake ever recorded in the history of Virginia, was held May 31, 1897 in Giles County, with an estimated magnitude of 5.8 which is what the preliminary reports that the recent history.

Before the earthquake today was the largest earthquake in Virginia 5.9 quake that struck in Giles County in 1897 and was felt in 12 states, according to US Geological Survey.

According to the website of the USGS, was the largest devastating earthquake in central Virginia seismic zone in 1875 was magnitude 4.8.

Virginia has had more than 160 earthquakes in the past three decades, but only about a sixth of their feeling.

Yes, Earthquake in Virginia Today is unusual.

http://www.travelandlivingchannel.com/earthquake-in-virginia-today.html/feed

