This article was originally published by ElectionOnline. To read the original article, please click here. We’re glad that everyone remained unharmed during the East Coast earthquake on election day!

The East Coast experienced a rare magnitude 5.8 earthquake at 1:51 p.m. on Tuesday. The epicenter of the quake was located in Mineral, Va.

In Louisa County, where the epicenter of the earthquake was located, Cristy Watkins, registrar of voters, said things went extremely well considering the circumstances.

With phone lines overwhelmed in the minutes following the quake, deputy registrars fanned out to the six affected polling places to check on poll workers and voters.

The Stafford County fire marshal inspected all 27 of the counties polling sites shortly after the quake and deemed them all safe and voting continued even though some of the polling place hosts tried to shut-down operations.

“We said no, we don’t do that on election day,” Registrar Greg Riddlemoser told The Freelance Star.”I’m very, very proud of the response of the precinct workers. Nobody really thinks that you’re going to have an earthquake on election day. I’m very pleased with the calm nature and the business mentality” of the poll officials.

About an hour after the earthquake, City of Falls Church Registrar Dave Bjerke quipped on Facebook, “Falls Church will not be suppressed. Outside the polls voting!”

It was largely business as usual for Fairfax County, one of the state’s largest and most populated counties. A number of polling places were evacuated when the earthquake happened so they could assess if there was structural damage and all facilities that were evacuated set up in the parking lot with the voting machines running on battery power.

Operations in the county elections office were not affected by the earthquake although Cortes noted that they definitely felt the tremors.

“While our emergency plans contemplate blizzards, hurricanes, and even terrorist attacks, earthquakes weren’t really on our list of issues to plan for,” Cortes said. “I think our staff and election officers in the field performed incredibly well and ensured that we continued voting the entire day without more than a few minutes of interruption.”

