        Earthquake on The East Coast in Virginia 2011 Actual Footage - I Survived 5.9M

    Earthquake on The East Coast in Virginia 2011 Actual Footage - I Survived 5.9M

Earthquake on the east coast? Earthquake In Virginia?  Making a VLOG can be hazardous these days especially when you live in virginia and you start sitting down and the whole house shakes.  What if the earthquake made the house collapsed on me during this VLOG? The ceiling could have fell through since this earthquake was bad enough. This was a confirmed earthquake which registered a 5.8 to 5.9 I am a Virginia Earthquake 2011 Survivor! Actual Footage caught on cameraIs the world coming to an end? Is this the next sign?Earthquake Felt Across D.C. Region? I felt the floor and the chair and the table shaking. Felt like a train and a plane and thunder near my house all at the same time. Earthquakes need to be taken seriously! If you feel an earthquake be prepared. The pentagon got it bad! 5.9M Earthquake Rocks Virginia East Coast USA Eastern united states 5.9 earthquake hits virginia.The U.S. Geological Survey said the earthquake was half a mile deep. Shaking was felt at the White House and all over the East Coast, as far south as Chapel Hill, N.C. Parts of the Pentagon, White House and Capitol were evacuated. There were no immediate reports of injuries. The Pentagon was later deemed safe for reoccupation.The quake was centered near Louisa, Va., in Louisa County, which is northwest of Richmond and south of Washington.I never panic during these kind of things since it clouds your mind and you are less likely to be able to take control of the situation. Earthquake or tornado, we need to think clearly.Let me know if you had any earthquakes near you and how did you react. East coast earthquake? 5.9M Earthquake Rocks Virginia East Coast USA? 5.9 Magnitude Earthquake hits East Coast 8-23-11 8/23/2011 -- UPTICK continues -- 5.9 magnitude earthquake in Virginia - East Coast United StatesStrong aftershock rocks Northern Virginia (A magnitude 4.5 aftershock) Raw VideoLooks like there was a  5.6 earthquake during a Torrey Smith interview. "Torrey Smith" is an NFL player from Virginia! Fairfax - Earthquakes are never funny. The recent CNN video: "DC Earthquake Funny"? I thought it was rude not funny.Tags:6.2 5.8 quake america east coast west washington elenin nibiru comet virginia seattle USA ocean new york capitol pentagon breaking news SKY maryland baltimore united states richmond heights newark north carolina charlottesville

in﻿ california, earthquakes are horrible.

I live in Maryland. We were in Quantico, VA when my folks and I felt it. We visited the US Marine museum there and we were in the building when we felt it. When earthquake happens, you usually swing side to side or back and forth﻿ but dis one was different.

I didn't mean to say this but this video totally made laugh. You were video taping then it's started to rumble and you still had no idea﻿ what was going on after five seconds. The earthquake was scary. It did feel like there was a train coming.

and its not funny in the east coast. why? cuz in the﻿ west coast mainly southern california, the houses are made to resist earthquakes and over there there made of brick and hard stuff to resit hurricanes (im right?0 so i hope your ok

5:04Add toFairfax Virginia -  5.9 Earthquake - August 23r...by GiuseppeM92,979 views

1:23Add toEarthquake In Virginia 2011 Footage ... Aftersh...by RefinedDesignsHD163,379 views

3:34Add toTeen singing in time of Earthquake 5.9  Virgini...by rogermaikelson81,528 views

1:07Add toEarthquake Virginia 2011 Live from Washington D...by fredgrauf244,788 views

1:50Add toEarthquake August 23rd - I SURVIVED (Preview to...by amartin11226287 views

3:01Add toKids React To The Earthquake On the East Coast ...by all4tubekids8,514 views

1:22Add to5.8 earthquake in Virginia felt in Washington, ...by TheSafiyasan20 views

