A few minutes ago, an earthquake struck the East Coast of the U.S., centered near Richmond, Virginia, says the U.S. Geological Survey, which gave it a preliminary magnitude rating of 5.8 (just updated to 5.9). Tremors were felt all throughout the Mid-Atlantic and Northeast--the PopSci headquarters in Midtown Manhattan shook a bit, causing a minor nerd panic. No injuries or damage have been reported yet.

Colorado was hit with a 5.3 magnitude earthquake yesterday, the state's biggest in decades. A series of minor earthquakes hit Northern and Southern California last week, with some continuing today, but the big one today was centered in Northern Virginia, near Richmond. Though no injuries or damage have been reported, several news sources are reporting that the Pentagon and U.S. Capitol building, both located nearby, have been evacuated. Cell phone service in New York city appears spotty, especially AT&T, though it's not clear whether that's related to the earthquake or the high number of calls undoubtedly being placed right now. 

Solar flares, near miss asteroids, tsunami, earth quakes, wars, disease, famine, world economic down turn,December 21, 2012 is not to far away.

I live in Richmond, VA.  Inside the one-story office where I work, it felt like a low flying plane (really low).  Once we got outside, you had to sit on the ground to feel it, but you could still see the glass doors shaking.  Most people in cars didn't even realize there was an earthquake.  I did hear from a co-worker's boyfriend that he witnessed a swimmer who couldn't get out of a pool because the waves trapped her in the middle.

I felt it here in Michigan. It felt like I was on a boat (www.youtube.com/watch?v=R7yfISlGLNU). My boss was like, "do you feel that?" I had thought it was just me and I suddenly was taken ill. That was the first time I've ever actually felt an Earth quake. Pretty wild.

Since I'm from California, I can't help feeling a little bit amused by people on the east coast freaking out about an earthquake. That being said, an earthquake over there is actually a serious matter, since buildings in that region generally aren't specifically built to withstand earthquakes and preparations for what to do in the event of an earthquake are more or less non-existent there.

Solar flares, near-miss asteroids, tsunamis, earthquakes, wars, disease, and famine have all been with us over the course of our brief existence on this planet. As for world economic downturn, it has happened before, during the Great Depression. Also, back when the world was a smaller place, the Roman Empire suffered an economic crisis as well. If these events seem more frequent or brand new, I submit that it's mostly or entirely due to advances in communications, which have brought information about nearly every natural or man-made disaster in the world right to our doorstep. Look into the past, and you'll see that we weren't always so knowledgeable about events on our planet or out in the rest of the universe. In fact, it used to be so bad that we were only aware of events in our small part of the world, which we thought of as our entire world at the time. Of course, for some people in remote or developing parts of the world, that limited perspective still exists because they don't have access to or can't afford luxuries like computers, smart phones, books, magazines, or newspapers.

Not to forget Japan: "....A nuclear power plant in central Virginia has lost offsite power in the wake of a 5.8 earthquake centered northwest of Richmond, Va., U.S. nuclear officials said.The North Anna Power Station, which has two nuclear reactors, is now using four diesel generators to maintain cooling operations. The plant automatically shut down in the wake of the earthquake...,..."As far as we know, everything is safe," said Nuclear Regulatory Commission spokesman David McIntyre.

sheesh :) that was fun :) I was in the second story of a two story building. at first it felt like someone dropped a big object that would have vibrated the floor, but I noticed the chair in which I sat was shaking in a circular type pattern when I realized that it was an earthquake. I near bolted for the door if I wasn't so far from an exit !!!

Been through multiple earthquakes living on the west coast...  The most recent of which was in Hawaii...  A 4.6 earthquake was responsible for knocking out power for around 24+ hours...  That was fun... Then there was Seattle area over 10 years ago...  didnt really notice that one.  Woke up the next day having heard that there was an earthquake...  the day went a long as normal.

ScienceGallery: The National Zoo's Animals React to the EarthquakeArchive Gallery: 10 Renowned Scientists Make Their PopSci DebutA Clever New Fishing Method, 'Conching,' is the Latest Trend Spreading Among Australia's Hippest Bottlenose DolphinsAnimals at the National Zoo React to D.C. EarthquakeDoctors Who Work With X-Rays May Be Adapting at the Cellular Level to Withstand Radiation Painless Protein Scaffold Lets Cavity-Ridden Teeth Re-Grow From the Inside OutFermilab Astrophysicist's Method Cuts Plane Boarding Times in HalfNASA Satellites Watch as Hurricane Irene Bears Down on East CoastEngineers of Laboratory-Grown Muscle Figure Out How to Make It Firm and StrongBrand-New Supernova Spotted Within Hours, Will Be the Most-Studied Star Explosion Ever

Archive Gallery: The Geodesic Life56564831Animals at the National Zoo React to D.C. Earthquake56517832State of the Bionic Art: The Best Replacements for My Flimsy Human Parts56415833A New Generation of Throwbots is Ready to Be Flung Into Battle56461834Gray Matter: Easy DIY Gunpowder56152835The Goods: August 2011's Hottest Gadgets55272836New Computer Chip Modeled on a Living Brain Can Learn and Remember56362837Punching Stan In The Face, In Ultra Slow Motion56274838Archive Gallery: A Century of Ambitious Amphibious Vehicles56251839Why Baccarat,  the Game of Princes and Spies, Has Become a Target for High-Tech Cheaters562438310Introducing the Popular Science/InnoCentive Education Challenge561288311Exploring the Serious, Complicated Relationship Between People and Objects Through Art561898312

