The Anna nuclear power plant, hit by the Virginia Earthquake, was forced to release steam after losing electricity and a generator used to cool the plant failed.

Earlier today two of the nuclear power plants at the epicenter of today’s 5.9 earthquake were taken offline due to a power outage. The cooling functions at those plants were switched to run off emergency backup generators. 1 of the 4 generators failed within minutes despite an earlier NRC inspection and certification the generators were fit to use in the event of an emergency like today.

The NRC is now reporting one of the four back up generators that has been shutdown at the epicenter of the 5.9 Virginia earthquake has failed.

There has been a series of unusual events at nuclear power plants across the nation from North Carolina to Virgina following today’s 5.9 earthquake that struck with an epicenter near Mineral, Virginia’s Anna nuclear power plant. The earthquake caused power outages at the Anna plant which forced workers to shutdown the reactors and switch to emergency backup generator’s to cool the nuclear fuel rods at the reactor. While the NRC supposedly tested and certified the safety and functionality at the nuclear plant following the Fukushima nuclear meltdown, the NRC is now reporting that one of the backup generators at the plant failed just moments after being started.

As reported earlier the media initially ignored reporting on the status of the Anna nuclear power plant near the epicenter of today’s Virgina earthquake.

Media Silent On Fate Of Anna Nuclear Plant At Epicenter Of 5.9 Mineral Virginia Earthquake

A massive 5.9 earthquake, the largest ever in recorded history, which has been felt across the U.S. from Colorado To Massachusetts, has an epicenter near Mineral Virginia’s Anna Nuclear Power Plant.

After raising the question on why the media was being silent on the fate of the Anna Virginia nuclear reactors we learn the earthquake has taken 9 nuclear plants offline.

The earthquake triggered the automatic shutdown of a nuclear power plant less than 20 miles from the epicenter after it lost electricity. The quake signaled “unusual events” at 12 other nuclear facilities across the East Coast and Michigan, U.S. authorities reported.

The  EPA radnet radiation monitors in the area, which display radiation data controlled and supplied by the government, has not  shown any radiation spikes in the areas surrounding the epicenter of the earthquake.

The original  Mineral Virginia earthquake has been followed by four aftershocks so far. Experts warn that aftershocks continued for weeks  following the 5.9 earthquake that hit nearby Blacksburg in 1897.

At 2:46:50 pm, a 2.8 magnitude aftershock was felt in Louisa. According to the USGS, the epicenter was five miles southwest of the Town of Mineral and approximately one mile from the center of the original earthquake (37.931°N, 77.935°W). Read the USGS report on the first aftershock here.

A strong earthquake in Virginia shut down a nearby nuclear power plant Tuesday afternoon and sent out seismic waves felt by millions from Georgia to northern New England. Three aftershocks were reported by Tuesday evening.

-No major injuries or extensive damage were reported after the 5.8-magnitude earthquake.

-The quake prompted evacuations of office buildings and the precautionary closing of monuments in the nation’s capital.

- The quake, which was recorded at 1:51 p.m., was shallow — just 3.7 miles deep

- Eearthquake slowed but didn’t halt major transportation services.

- Service at major airports initially disrupted by resumed normal operations 75 minutes after the earthquake struck.

The NRC is now reporting one of the four back up generators that has been shutdown at the epicenter of the 5.9 Virginia earthquake has failed.

Nuclear industry watchdogs warn the North Anna nuclear plant may be leaking radioactive tritium due to damage in underground pipes from the Virginia earthquake.

On August 24th, a 5.8 earthquake struck ...

After raising the question on why the media was being silent on the fate of the Anna Virginia nuclear reactors we learn the earthquake has taken 2 nuclear plants offline.

Media Silent On Fate Of Anna Nuclear Plant At Epicenter Of 5.9 Mineral Virginia Earthquake

A massive 5.9 earthquake, the largest ever in recorded history, which has been felt across the U.S. from Colorado To Massachusetts,  has an epicenter near Mineral Virginia's Anna Nuclear Power ...

Videos of news coverage of the Mineral Virginia 5.9 earthquake with an epicenter near the Anna nuclear power plant.

The Fukushima Daiichi Reactors Were in Meltdown After the Earthquake, But Before the Tsunami Hit.

Note: While the earthquake that caused the massive tsunami is now estimated to be 9.0 in ...

Readers who viewed this page, also viewed: Police Severely Beat Man Half To Death For Bicycling Without Headlight Media Silent On Fate Of Anna Nuclear Plant At Epicenter Of 5.9 Mineral Virginia Earthquake Officials Admit North Anna Fuel Bunker Damaged By Quake As Feds Launch Reactor Core Damage Inspection Real Time EPA RadNet Japan Nuclear Radiation Monitoring For Every Major City In The Entire US On A Single Page 30,000 Rioters Will Lynch Journalists If Police Get Access To Raw Video Footage Feds Allowing Tritium Radiation Catastrophe Cover Up At North Anna VA Nuclear Plant?Related PostsBackup Generator Cooling Nuclear Power Plant Shutdown By Virginia Quake FailsOfficials Admit North Anna Fuel Bunker Damaged By Quake As Feds Launch Reactor Core Damage InspectionFeds Allowing Tritium Radiation Catastrophe Cover Up At North Anna VA Nuclear Plant?Two Nuclear Reactors Taken Offline, 9 Declare Unusual Events, After Virginia Earthquake Media Silent On Fate Of Anna Nuclear Plant At Epicenter Of 5.9 Mineral Virginia EarthquakeJapan Witheld Nuclear Meltdown Simulation Showing 18,000 Deaths And 55 Mile Dead ZoneHead of Fukushima health study says 100 mSv/yr OK for pregnant moms Videos Of News Coverage Of The Mineral Virginia EarthquakeScandal: Japan Arrests People For Collecting Radioactive Rubble While Claiming No Radiation In The AreaTEPCO’s Darkest Secret – A Weak Earthquake Caused The Nuclear Meltdown Not The TsunamiFukushima Nuclear Fuel Leaking Into Groundwater, Tepco Says Barrier Too Expensive, Will Hurt Stock PriceScientific Experts: Fukushima Potentially Worse Than 20 Chernobyls – Governments Hiding The TruthGuardian: Leaked Emails Reveal Government Conspiracy To Downplay Fukushima Nuclear DisasterFort Calhoun Nuclear Plant Underwater- References of 10 Mile Mandatory Evacuation Area Scrubbed From News Sites Flood Hits US Nuke Plant: Waters Breach Berm at Fort Calhoun Nuclear Station in NebraskaJapan Admits “Worse Than Meltdown” — Nuclear “Melt-Through” In 3 ReactorsPost Navigation:

Like or Dislike:  0  0[...] Anna Nuclear Plant Forced To Vent Steam Following Power Failure From Virginia Earthquake Reposted from: http://blog.alexanderhiggins.com/2011/08/24/anna-nuclear-plant-forced-vent-steam-power-failure-virgi... [...]

Like or Dislike:  0  0[...] Anna Nuclear Plant Forced To Vent Steam Following Power Failure From Virginia Earthquake [...]

Like or Dislike:  0  0[...] MORE  Anna Nuclear Plant Forced To Vent Steam Following Power Failure From Virginia Earthquake The Anna nuclear power plant, hit by the Virginia Earthquake, was forced to release steam after [...]

Like or Dislike:  0  0[...] Anna Nuclear Plant Forced To Vent Steam Following Power Failure From Virginia Earthquake                  Posted by Victor     on 8/24/2011 11:21:00 AM [...]

