Virginia Earthquake 2011: 4.2 Magnitude Aftershock Felt in Virginia, More Likely to Come | Christian Media Cross

Virginia Earthquake 2011: 4.2 Magnitude Aftershock Felt in Virginia, More Likely to Come

Hours after the initial quake, an aftershock measuring 4.2 on the Richter scale struck the region of Mineral, Virginia, according to the United States Geological Survey (USGS).

The 4.2 magnitude aftershock, which occurred around 8:04 p.m., was the third on Tuesday and had a depth of 4.9 miles and follows a 5.8 magnitude earthquake that occurred in the same area earlier Tuesday.

The first two aftershocks were measured to be less than one mile underground. Just 45 minutes after the initial quake, a magnitude 2.8 aftershock occurred around 2:45 p.m., about 45 miles south of Mineral. The second aftershock occurred around 3:20 p.m. with a magnitude of 2.2.

The United States Geological Survey (USGS) has confirmed that a 5.9 magnitude earthquake struck central Virginia at 1:51 pm EDT. It is the strongest quake to hit the Virginia area since 1897.

According to USGS, the quake happened at 1:51 p.m. at a depth of 3.7 miles. The quake was centered 27 miles east of Charlottesville, Va., near the town of Mineral in Louisa County, Va. The movement lasted for no more than 30 seconds.	    

Tuesday’s earthquake was felt in New York City, Boston, upstate New York, Cleveland, Charlotte, N.C., and even Martha’s Vineyard.

“The rocks are old and cold and they carry the seismic energy very far,” Blanpeid told the Washington Post in explanation of the widespread effects. “Even a magnitude 6 or less earthquake can be felt over a considerably large area, unlike California where the shaking is more concentrated.”

Although most Americans associate earthquakes with the West Coast, this is not Virginia’s first earthquake, and the state “is not an unexpected location for an earthquake,” John Ebel, director of the Boston College Weston Observatory, told The Boston Globe.

You might also be interested in:Magnitude 6.0 earthquake off Baja California, Mexico: USGS (Reuters)

5.9 Earthquake in Virginia Felt in Washington, New York City, North Carolina

No Tsunami Warning For 7.2 Magnitude Alaska Earthquake – Christian Post

Magnitude 6.4 earthquake hits off Japan

