Washington Monument closed indefinitely after 5.8 earthquake hits east coast  | Mail Online

Washington memorials closed after US East Coast is shaken by a 5.8-magnitude quake

Terrifying tremors were felt in New York, Washington D.C. and as far north as Toronto on Tuesday when America's East Coast was struck by the biggest earthquake in over a century.Major buildings, including the Pentagon and the White House had to be evacuated and several top tourist attractions in Washington have been closed for safety reasons after the city was shaken by a 5.8-magnitude quake, which originated in Virginia.Flights from JFK in New York and Reagan National Airport in Washington were also suspended while the airports checked for runway damage, but were later resumed. Scroll down for video 

Trains were temporarily suspended due to the quake and New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg confirmed the suspension bridges in the city were checked for damage.The 5.9-magnitude tremor struck at about 2pm local time with shallow tremors of about 3.7 miles deep, which is thought to explain why the shaking was so widespread.The U.S. Geological Survey said the earthquake was half a mile deep and centred near Louisa, Virginia, about 40 miles north west of Richmond. 

It is though to have been the strongest quake to hit the Virginia area since 1897.The previous record for an earthquake in the Washington, D.C. area was on July 16, 2010, when a 3.6 magnitude struck.'This

The Capitol Building and the Pentagon were among buildings evacuated after the quake struck.Pictures hanging on the walls at the Capitol reportedly fell to the floor from the shocks.  

'We're getting a lot of calls on buildings shaking but there's no report of any structural damage at this time,' a spokesman for the New York City Fire Department said.Buildings in Boston were evacuated, while witnesses said the quake was felt as far away as Toronto.In New York, many office buildings 

Ripples: This map shows the vast spread of the affect of the earthquake. Buildings were evacuated as far away as Toronto, Canada

Virginia who also felt the profound quake. This quake was like none I 

He told MailOnline he was in the kiosk when the quake hit. 'We all looked at each other. I thought the floor was going to cave in,' he said.   

'We thought it was construction,' she said. 'But then my daughter called from uptown and said: 'Mummy we just had an earthquake.' Her husband, who works as a maintenance worker uptown, told her he was on a ladder when the quake hit. 'He thought his legs were giving out before realising the whole building was shaking,' she said.When Alex Priest, a director of a marketing company, felt the tremors on his 7th

Paul Badger said he was sitting in his office in Troutman, North Carolina, when the earthquake hit.'I

Shattered: Part of the library's roof crumbled during the 5.9 magnitude earthquake 

