After raising the question on why the media was being silent on the fate of the Anna Virginia nuclear reactors we learn the earthquake has taken 2 nuclear plants offline.

A little over an hour ago I reported the media was being unusually quiet about the fate of the Anna nuclear power plant at the epicenter of the Virginia quake after receiving an phone call about the reactor.

Media Silent On Fate Of Anna Nuclear Plant At Epicenter Of 5.9 Mineral Virginia Earthquake

A massive 5.9 earthquake, the largest ever in recorded history, which has been felt across the U.S. from Colorado To Massachusetts,  has an epicenter near Mineral Virginia’s Anna Nuclear Power Plant.

The 2011 Virginia earthquake was a magnitude 5.9 (Mw) intraplate earthquake that occurred on August 23, 2011. The focus is reported by the USGS to be about 64 km (39 mi) northwest of Richmond, Virginia near the town of Mineral, Virginia.

The earthquake was the highest-magnitude event in Virginia in recorded history.

The epicenter of the quake Mineral Virginia, which is the location of the Anna Nuclear Power Plant.

According MSNBC, the plant was among the list of nuclear power plants at most risk to suffer core damage from an earthquake.

The nuclear meltdown in Japan didn’t happen because of the Tsunami as they first told us. The meltdown was caused by damage from the earthquake before the Tsunami hit.  While it may have been a 9.0 earthquake out in the Pacific, it was only a 6.4 at the nuclear power plant itself.

Since then 9 unusual events have been declared at nuclear reactors following the quake and the NRC reports that the two nuclear reactors hit directly by the quake have been taken offline.

Two nuclear reactors were taken offline at the North Anna Power Station due to the earthquakes in Virgina.

Federal officials say two nuclear reactors at the North Anna Power Station in Louisa County, Va., were automatically taken off line by safety systems around the time of the earthquake.

She said the energy from earthquakes on the East Coast does not attenuate as quickly as it does on the West Coast, and thus even a relatively modest tremor can shake a very broad [area].

“When something like this happen, everyone has to remember, more than half of the states in the U.S. are considered earthquake country. When something like this happens, remember what to do in the case of a seismic event. Duck, get under something sturdy like a desk or a doorway, get away from falling glass. Make sure that you are not in the way of falling objects like pictures, bookshelves, books, anything that’s not firmly connected the wall.”

CNN is reporting that 9 nuclear power plants have declared an unusual event after the earthquake. Stay tuned as more news comes in.

Nuclear industry watchdogs warn the North Anna nuclear plant may be leaking radioactive tritium due to damage in underground pipes from the Virginia earthquake.

On August 24th, a 5.8 earthquake struck ...

Media Silent On Fate Of Anna Nuclear Plant At Epicenter Of 5.9 Mineral Virginia Earthquake

A massive 5.9 earthquake, the largest ever in recorded history, which has been felt across the U.S. from Colorado To Massachusetts,  has an epicenter near Mineral Virginia's Anna Nuclear Power ...

The NRC is now reporting one of the four back up generators that has been shutdown at the epicenter of the 5.9 Virginia earthquake has failed.

Videos of news coverage of the Mineral Virginia 5.9 earthquake with an epicenter near the Anna nuclear power plant.

The Anna nuclear power plant, hit by the Virginia Earthquake, was forced to release steam after losing electricity and a generator used to cool the plant failed.

One hour Mega Disasters documentary on the Japan Great Earthquake 2011 covering the loss of life, destruction and the ongoing level 7 nuclear meltdowns at Fukushima.

Readers who viewed this page, also viewed: Guardian: Leaked Emails Reveal Government Conspiracy To Downplay Fukushima Nuclear Disaster Anna Nuclear Plant Forced To Vent Steam Following Power Failure From Virginia Earthquake Major Paper : Canada Government Covered Up “Massive Amounts Of Radiation In Air” Unbelievable! Court Rules US Taxpayers, Not BP Or Transocean, Are Liable For Gulf Oil Spill Clean Up Costs Presenting Goldman Sachs Top Secret “The World Is Ending So Let’s All Profit” Report 30,000 Rioters Will Lynch Journalists If Police Get Access To Raw Video FootageRelated PostsFeds Allowing Tritium Radiation Catastrophe Cover Up At North Anna VA Nuclear Plant?Media Silent On Fate Of Anna Nuclear Plant At Epicenter Of 5.9 Mineral Virginia EarthquakeBackup Generator Cooling Nuclear Power Plant Shutdown By Virginia Quake FailsVideos Of News Coverage Of The Mineral Virginia EarthquakeAnna Nuclear Plant Forced To Vent Steam Following Power Failure From Virginia EarthquakeOfficials Admit North Anna Fuel Bunker Damaged By Quake As Feds Launch Reactor Core Damage InspectionJapan Witheld Nuclear Meltdown Simulation Showing 18,000 Deaths And 55 Mile Dead ZoneFlood Hits US Nuke Plant: Waters Breach Berm at Fort Calhoun Nuclear Station in NebraskaHead of Fukushima health study says 100 mSv/yr OK for pregnant moms Rapid Spike In Radiation Halts Clean-Up At Fukushima Nuclear Power PlantGuardian: Leaked Emails Reveal Government Conspiracy To Downplay Fukushima Nuclear DisasterMega Disasters – Japan Great Earthquake 2011 DocumentaryFukushima Is Continually Blasting All Of Us With High Levels Of Cesium, Strontium And Plutonium And Will Slowly Kill Millions For Years To ComeHurricane Irene 8 Foot Storm Surge Warnings Issued Across, NC, VA, MD, DE, NJ, NY and MAMajor Paper : Canada Government Covered Up “Massive Amounts Of Radiation In Air”Fukushima Finally Labeled As “New Chernobyl” — Japan Admits Cleanup Will Take DecadesPost Navigation:

Previous Post: Media Silent On Fate Of Anna Nuclear Plant At Epicenter Of 5.9 Mineral Virginia Earthquake 

Like or Dislike:  0  0[...] Two Nuclear Reactors Taken Offline, 9 Declare Unusual Events, After Virginia Earthquake [...]

Like or Dislike:  0  0[...] Two Nuclear Reactors Taken Offline, 9 Declare Unusual Events, After Virginia Earthquake [...]

Like or Dislike:  0  0[...] Two Nuclear Reactors Taken Offline, 9 Declare Unusual Events, After Virginia Earthquake [...]

Like or Dislike:  0  0[...] target.  Two nuclear reactors taken offline, 9 declare unusual events, after Virginia earthquake ~ link        Posted by Lord Stirling   at 9:49 PM                  Labels: Anna Hazare, Assad under [...]

Like or Dislike:  0  0[...] Two Nuclear Reactors Taken Offline, 9 Declare Unusual Events, After Virginia Earthquake [...]

Like or Dislike:  0  0[...] Quake FailsTwo Nuclear Reactors Taken Offline, 9 Declare Unusual Events, After Virginia Earthquake [link to blog.alexanderhiggins.com] Media Silent On Fate Of North Anna Nuclear Plant At Epicenter Of 5.9 Mineral Virginia Earthquake [...]

Like or Dislike:  0  0[...] Soon after the media began reporting on the status of plant saying that the plants electrical power had been cut-off and the spent fuel pools at the reactors were being cooled by power supplied by emergency backup generators at the nuclear plant. Two Nuclear Reactors Taken Offline, 9 Declare Unusual Events, After Virginia Earthquake [...]

Like or Dislike:  0  0[...] = 't5_2qh0u';commentsharecancelloading…103•••Two Nuclear Reactors Taken Offline, 9 Declare Unusual Events, After Virginia Earthquake Tuesday, Aug… (blog.alexanderhiggins.com)submitted 38 [...]

Like or Dislike:  1  0[...] As reported earlier, the media initially ignored reporting on the status of the North Anna nuclear power plant near the epicenter of today’s Virgina earthquake. Two Nuclear Reactors Taken Offline, 9 Declare Unusual Events, After Virginia Earthquake [...]

Like or Dislike:  0  0[...] MORE  Two Nuclear Reactors Taken Offline, 9 Declare Unusual Events, After Virginia Earthquake After raising the question on why the media was being silent on the fate of the Anna Virginia [...]

Like or Dislike:  0  0[...] quake caused damage over hundred miles away, most notably cracking the Washington Monument, and took both of the reactors at the North Anna plant offline due to the earthquake cutting off the electricity needed to cool the nuclear reactors. The loss of [...]

