Earthquakes in the nation’s capitol are as rare as hen’s teeth. The epicenter of Tuesday’s quake was in Mineral, Virginia, which is located on three very quiet fault lines. The occurrence of yet another freak earthquake in an unusual location is leading many anti-fracking activists (including me – they have just started fracking in Stratford, which is 40 minutes from New Plymouth) to wonder whether “fracking” in nearby West   Virginia may be responsible.

According to geologists, it isn’t the fracking itself that is linked to earthquakes, but the re-injection of waste salt water (as much as 3 million gallons per well) deep into rock beds.

Braxton County West Virginia (160 miles from Mineral) has experienced a rash of freak earthquakes (eight in 2010) since fracking operations started there several years ago. According to geologists fracking also caused an outbreak of thousands of minor earthquakes in Arkansas (as many as two dozen in a single day). It’s also linked to freak earthquakes in Texas, western New   York, Oklahoma, and Blackpool, England (which had never recorded an earthquake before).

Industry scientists deny the link to earthquakes, arguing that energy companies have been fracking for nearly sixty years. However it’s only a dozen years ago that “slick-water fracks” were introduced. This form of fracking uses huge amounts of water mixed with sand and dozens of toxic chemicals like benzene, all of which is injected under extreme pressure to shatter the underground rock reservoir and release gas trapped in the rock pores. Not only does the practice utilize millions of gallons of freshwater per frack (taken from lakes, rivers, or municipal water supplies), the toxic chemicals mixed in the water to make it “slick” endanger groundwater aquifers and threaten to pollute nearby water-wells.

I think it’s really hard to deny there’s a connection when the frequency of Arkansas earthquakes dropped by two-thirds when the Arkansas Oil and Gas Commission banned fracking (see http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/04/21/fracking-shutdown-earthquakes-arkansas_n_851930.html). Note that they didn’t stop entirely, which suggests that fault disruption may persist even after fracking stops.

Braxton County West Virginia also experienced a marked reduction in their quakes after the West Virginia Oil and Gas Commission forced fracking companies to cut back on the pressure and rate of salt water injection into the bedrock (see http://www.hurherald.com/cgi-bin/db_scripts/articles?Action=user_view&db=hurheral_articles&id=43334).

According to a joint study by Southern Methodist University and University of Texas-Austin, earthquakes started in the Dallas/Fort Worth region after a fracking disposal well there began operating in 2008 and stopped when it was closed in 2009 (see http://www.watershedsentinel.ca/content/does-gas-fracking-cause-earthquakes).

Blackpool, England banned fracking immediately, without waiting to see if more earthquakes would occur.

Meanwhile there is a legal precedent of an Arkansas man suing a fracking company for earthquake damage to his home. For people with earthquake damage from today’s quake, there’s a very nice lawyer at http://www.fracking-lawsuit.com/ who would be delighted to give you a free consultation.

Here in New Zealand, we worry about earthquakes a lot. There are a lot of people and businesses in Christchurch that can no longer get insurance because the Chch earthquakes practically wiped the insurance companies out.

Very interesting. I had not heard of the connection. A friend of mine-who is anti fracking and in the energy business -just mentioned that DC has had some historically bad earthquakes...I will pass this on to her.

Stuart:This is a well thought out post.I might interject that there is another cause of earthquakes which needs to be looked at also.Global warming.With billions of tons of ice on land melting and running into the sea an enormous amount of weight is shifted off of parts of tectonic plates. Those shifts would allow those plates to rise and cause plate movement throughout the globe, wouldn't they?Until you mention fracking I thought that the cause of the rash of earth quakes had only to do with ice melt plate release and movement. I would add your ideas to the mix.

I felt those earthquakes here in DFW. As a species we're not that smart.

I lived in Colorado years ago when fracking was going on and I remember the earthquakes. They stopped the fracking and the earthquakes stopped.

Tuning in a little late to your blog, "Dr. Stuart". [What name do you prefer being called by?].  Immensely appreciate your sharing your studies with us.  I'd been trying to find information via Google when I could have found it a good 24 hours ago from you! Godspeed to Christ Church (for which I have fond associations) from someone who moved from the Los Angeles major earthquake fault line to the Seattle one [after leaving next door to Elmira ;-)].  Much much appreciation for extending this important discussion.  THANK YOU! R

The science will tell us, which this blog does not.  More likely the erosion of the glaciers 20,000 years ago resulted in the geological happenstance that caused the 'quake. 'Facking' is to geology what an ice cube is to global warming.  Nice try.

(a) earthquakes do happen on their own(b) seems to be plenty evidence that fracking causes small local quakes(c) we gotta do something besides find, extract and burn all the possible fossil fuel there is(d) citizen initiatives are as likely to be FOR fracking and whatever-it-takes as for more sane policies...(e) having messed with the atmosphere and oceans, we're now messing with the deep earth!  My god, when will we stop?  Oh wait, I know the answer...

That is the first thing I thought of when I heard about the earthquake.If you are wondering about comments and ratings, it's working very poorly today. Thank you for writing this.

No. The earthquake epicenter was located in a seismically active part of Virginia known as the Central Virginia Seismic Zone. Although earthquakes of magnitude >5 are relatively rare in eastern North America, they do occur. The earthquake of August 23rd occurred exactly in an area where it was to be expected. It is doubtful that fracking injection would contribute enough fluid and energy needed to create the seismic activity necessary to generate a 5.8-5.9 magnitude earthquake that would be felt along a significant portion of North America.Please check the USGS website and examine the focal mechanism solution, which indicates reverse-oblique slipping along the nearby Spotsylvania Fault. Movement such as this is to be expected as a result of eastern North America existing in a compressional stress regime, possibly caused by subsidence of the adjacent Atlantic seafloor.The conjecture that the recent quake is the result of isostatic uplift caused by global warming can also be discounted in that the earthquake epicenter occurred well outside of (far south of) areas of observed post-glacial rebound.Global warming and hydrocarbon fracking pose serious threats to the environment and to life on Earth. The type of alarmism that some elements of the environmental movement use to further their own paranoid agendas is both unprofessional and deplorable, and serves no good to anyone. Please educate yourself more thoroughly on these issues, and seek the help of professionals who are knowledgeable in the field. I hope my comments have been of such help.Cheers.

Thanks for your comment, S. All I know is that Scott M. Ausbrooks, a RPG geologist from the Arkansas Geological Survey, believes there may be a connection with fracking and has gone to Virginia to investigate further. So this seems to be an area in which geologists are divided.If you are prepared to have an open mind about this, I suggest you check out the following links:http://planetsave.com/2011/02/18/arkansas-earthquakes-related-to-hydraulic-fracking/http://www.thesuntimes.com/news/x1704352837/Injection-wells-bannedhttp://www.arkansasonline.com/news/2011/jul/31/permanent-disposal-well-moratorium-issued-20110731/?news-arkansashttp://ozarksfirst.com/fulltext?nxd_id=510617

The nearest use of fracking is located 90 miles to the west of the epicenter, in West Virginia.  Even at a relatively high transport velocity of 1 ft/day- and assuming that groundwater flows in a straight line eastward from the fracking operation (which it doesn't) and that the intervening rock strata are perfectly homogenous (which they aren't)- it would take 475,200 days (~1,302 yrs) for injected fracking fluid to reach the known epicenter. This does not take into account the fact that time is needed for the fracking fluid to collect along the fault zone so as to lubricate the fault and allow for enhanced fault movement.  One must also explain the lack of smaller scale earthquakes that might be expected to have occurred west of the epicenter if fracking really is to blame. The real situation is far more complex than the simplification that I provided. As I stated in my previous comment, the earthquake occurred in a known seismic zone. In short, there is absolutely NO WAY that known fracking operations caused the recent Mineral, VA earthquake. While fracking operations are believed to cause small scale localized seismic disturbances, the recent Mineral, VA earthquake is an example of the infrequent large quakes that occur normally in eastern North America (e.g. Giles Co., VA, 1897; NY-Ontario, 1944, etc.). Also consider that the east coast appears to be overdue for a truly large quake such as the Charleston, SC quake of 1886 (mag. 7.3). Let us not forget the Cape Ann, MA quake of 1755 (mag. 5.9) which caused significant damage to the city of Boston. (Any ideas as to what caused those?)  There are plenty of reasons to want hydrocarbon fracking banned, but the recent earthquake of August 23 is NOT one of them. Let's keep an open mind.BTW, if it sounds as if I know what I'm talking about it's because I've worked as a hydrogeologist and environmental consultant since 1991, and I'm licensed in both NC and SC.

