(UPDATED) 2 Nuclear Reactors Shut Down In Virginia Following M5.9 Earthquake | 

(UPDATED) 2 Nuclear Reactors Shut Down In Virginia Following M5.9 Earthquake

A nuclear power plant located in Louisa County, the epicenter of the earthquake in Virginia, has shut down. The North Anna Power  Station, operated by Dominion Power, has two reactors.  The plant  declared an "unusual event" in the wake of the 5.9 magnitude quake,  which is the lowest stage on the plant's emergency scale. As a result, the plant has been shut down. Check back with NBC Washington for more updates as they become available.(UPDATE)The AP reports the plant is being run off of four emergency diesel  generators, which are supplying power for critical safety equipment.(And what does the stock market do on the news? Bots go overdrive of course and ramp up the market. What else do they do? Sell gold and silver! Make sense, doesn't it? Time to buy risky assets (stocks) in times of uncertainty.)(Oh I see. Maybe when they evacuated the exchanges they instructed the bots to just keep buying stocks no matter what...)

Never mind what's happening with the reactors, how much spent fuel is in the spent fuel pool(s), and what's happening with them?According to this blog (see link below), which quotes from an email from Bob Alvarez:- North Anna reactors are Westinghouse PWRs, online since 1979-80- approx. 1,200 metric tons of spent fuel generated at North Anna in 32 years since then- the North Anna spent fuel contains approx. 228,000 curies of highly radioactive materials, which is said to be "among the largest concentrations of radioactivity" in the US.- approx. 40% North Anna spent fuel pool radioactivity is Cs-137 viz. "The North Anna pools hold about 15-30 times more Cs-137 than was released by the Chernobyl accident in 1986. - "In 2003, IPS helped lead a study warning that drainage of a pool might cause a catastrophic radiation fire, which could render an area uninhabitable greater than that created by the Chernobyl accident."- North Anna spent fuel pools "contain 4-5 times more than their original designs intended" viz. "As in Japan, all U.S. power nuclear power plant spent fuel pools do not have steel lined, concrete barriers that cover reactor vessels to prevent the escape of radioactivity. They are not required to have back-up generators to keep used fuel rods cool, if offsite power is lost. Even though they contain these very large amount of radioactivity, spent reactor fuel pools in the U.S. are mostly contained in ordinary industrial structures designed to protect them against the elements."http://pogoblog.typepad.com/pogo/2011/08/north-anna-nuclear-reactors-designed-to-withstand-59-61-magnitude-earthquake.htmlThis is, what, 80 miles from Washington DC?What the else will it take to shut this fucking industry down? Or are we finally done now?

Pre-quake pics of independent spent fuel storage installation (ISFSI) for nuclear waste at North Anna, VA:http://cryptome.org/eyeball/isfsi/isfsi-eyeball.htmWill they stay standing in a 5+mag quake?

"Company admits Virginia nuke plant only designed to withstand a magnitude 5.9 – 6.1 earthquake — Today’s quake was 5.9"http://enenews.com/company-admits-virginia-nuke-plant-only-designed-withstand-magnitude-59-61-earthquake-todays-quake-59

A tweet at this link claims Va. NPP evacuation"CONFIRMED: North Anna Nuclear Power Plant being evacuated to only ‘critical’ personnel"http://enformable.com/2011/08/breaking-5-9-earthquake-strikes-near-7th-most-at-risk-nuclear-power-station-for-earthquake-damage-if-foreshock-then-worse-is-yet-to-come/

I am Japanese, and I not only read Japanese news sources for information on earthquake and the Fukushima Nuke Plant but also watch press conferences via the Internet when I can and summarize my findings, adding my observations.

Well, this was, until March 11, 2011. Now it is taken over by the events in Japan, first earthquake and tsunami but quickly by the nuke reactor accident. It continues to be a one-person (me) blog, and I haven't even managed to update the sidebars after 5 months... Thanks for coming, spread the word.------------------This is an aggregator site of blogs coming out of SKF (double-short financials ETF) message board at Yahoo.Along with commentary on day's financial news, it also provides links to the sites with financial and economic news, market data, stock technical analysis, and other relevant information that could potentially affect the financial markets and beyond.Disclaimer: None of the posts or links is meant to be a recommendation, advice or endorsement of any kind. The site is for information and entertainment purposes only.

