One of the most classic “California” words used by young and old is …totally.  I had to chuckle when I saw the announcement this morning that the California Emergency Management Agency has partnered with the California Seismic Safety Commission (CSSC) and California Earthquake Authority (CEA) to launch “Totally Unprepared” just in time for National Preparedness Month!   This totally California multimedia campaign is geared to help Californians (actually anyone!) better understand their risk of earthquakes and how to prepare for them.

Today the first in a series of videos showing Californians taking simple steps to keep themselves safe in the event of an earthquake.  The first video features former NFL star Vencie Glenn as he admits he wasn’t prepared and actually suffered damages from a recent earthquake.  The best part is that he learns what to do to safely secure his home and safeguard his property from damages.

Did the earth move for you yesterday?!? For a lot of people in the East it did! Virginia’s BIG 5.8 earthquake…widespread ground shaking

Comparing two similar quakes in two different parts of the United States...significant difference in how far away the ground shaking is felt. (Source New York Times)

Earthquakes in the central and eastern U.S., although less frequent than in the western U.S., are typically felt over a much broader region. East of the Rockies, an earthquake can be felt over an area as much as ten times larger than a similar magnitude earthquake on the west coast. A magnitude 4.0 eastern U.S. earthquake typically can be felt at many places as far as 100 km (60 mi) from where it occurred, and it infrequently causes damage near its source. A magnitude 5.5 eastern U.S. earthquake usually can be felt as far as 500 km (300 mi) from where it occurred, and sometimes causes damage as far away as 40 km (25 mi).

Yesterday’s earthquake occurred on a north or northeast-striking plane within a previously recognized seismic zone, called the “Central Virginia Seismic Zone” (CVSZ).  The CVSZ has produced small and moderate earthquakes since at least the 18th century. The previous largest historical shock from the CVSZ occurred in 1875 and occurred before the invention of effective seismographs, but the felt area of the shock suggests that it had a magnitude of about 4.8. The 1875 earthquake shook bricks from chimneys, broke plaster and windows, and overturned furniture at several locations. A magnitude 4.5 earthquake, December 9, 2003 also produced minor damage.

For those of you in the East and Midwest this is a bit of a wake up call.  Earthquakes happen throughout the United States, albeit more commonly in the West.  Take a look at your emergency response and business continuity plans this morning through fresh, earthquake filled eyes.

Oh, and by the way, the largest natural earthquake in Colorado in more than a century struck Monday night in the state’s southeast corner, but there were no reports of damage or injuries. The quake, with a preliminary magnitude of 5.3, was centered about nine miles from the city of Trinidad and hit at 11:46 p.m. local time. It was felt as far away as Greeley, about 350 miles north, and into Kansas and New Mexico.

http://earthquake.usgs.gov/earthquakes/recenteqsww/Quakes/se082311a.php#summary

http://www.nytimes.com/2011/08/25/us/25quake.html?_r=1&hp

Can earthquakes be predicted? Long held belief is no, but a Bay Area project, QuakeFinder, is trying to prove the naysayers wrong.

Reading the New York Times this weekend, I came upon an article about a Bay Area company trying to predict earthquakes.  Well, that requires a little data mining to find out what they are all about…

The company, Stellar Solutions has a project called QuakeFinders which involves installing 200 five-foot-tall sensors near fault lines to measure changes in underground magnetic fields and detect electrically charged particles in the air. The theory behind it is that changes in electromagnetic fields can foretell quakes.  Now isn’t that interesting!?!?!

So why do geological scientists like U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) think about this idea?!? Well it turns out, that the science behind QuakeFinder is disputed. It appears that most seismologists dismiss it as a sham and that forecasting earthquakes is impossible. USGS, the main sponsor of most earthquake research, does not support quake-related studies of electromagnetic radiation because it has found them to be a scientific dead end.

As you might suspect, QuakeFinder has other thoughts.  As reported by the company, QuakeFinder devices detected electromagnetic pulses that resembled those produced by lightning in the two weeks before an earthquake struck at Alum Rock near San Jose in 2007, he said, and charged air particles and infrared light were also detected. Similar observations by QuakeFinder preceded an earthquake in Peru last year.

QuakeFinder is the world’s leading private research organization focused on creating a system for forecasting major earthquakes. Operating as a humanitarian R&D division of Stellar Solutions and funded by Stellar Solutions, by grants from NASA, subscriptions, and sponsorships from the public, QuakeFinder has developed the science, technology, infrastructure and expertise that are the foundation for a practical earthquake forecasting solution.

http://www.quakefinder.com/

http://www.nytimes.com/2011/08/14/us/14bcquakefinder.html?_r=1&scp=1&sq=quakefinders&st=cse

The One, Two Punch…first then earthquake and the Irene…what sources did you use to track the… http://t.co/I98T9aF 1 week ago

