Is it possible that in using HAARP to try to steer hurricane Irene away from the eastern seaboard and minimize the potential for widespread catastrophic damage from what meteorologists say could come ashore as a monster category 4 hurricane—is it possible that the Virginia earthquake was accidentally induced? Extensive information available to the public implies the answer is yes.

As far as the Virginia earthquake being a product of HAARP, please learn more about this technology, and decide for yourself. There is great possibility that HAARP has already affected all of our lives in ways that seem incredible.

2. All Articles And Quotes, Government, HAARP | Climate Altering | Energy Induced Earthquakes

The “once in 500 year” flooding of the Mississippi river over the New Madrid fault line is part of a campaign directed against the American people, according to multiple intelligence agency (MI6, CIA, FSB, Japan Security police) sources. The HAARP caused flooding is expected to be followed by an earthquake and then a “nuclear emergency” involving the 15 nuclear reactors located in the region. This will be a pretext for mass evacuations into FEMA camps, the sources say. The best way to derail this plan, apart from arresting the criminal cabal in Washington D.C., is to widely announce and denounce these plans in advance. Read article here

The horrific earthquake weapon attack on Japan, resulting in 10 meter tsunamis along much of Japan’s coast line came from rogue elements of the U.S. government located in underground bases in New Mexico and Nevada, according to pentagon and CIA sources.  Read articles here and here and a video explanation here

Satanists who have participated in the plot to enslave humanity are worried and are starting to run. With 40% of Greece’s population revolting, the satanists are realizing we have great strength in unity. The masses are becoming aware and revolution is coming. Their plan was to kill at least 4 billion people and permanently enslave the rest of humanity. There is so much evidence for this now that only the fools still relying on Satanic corporate propaganda do not realize it yet. The plan involved a fake alien invasion, germ warfare, starvation, atomic war and artificially generated disasters like tsunamis and earthquakes. Read Article Here

The US government, using a secret military program HAARP (High Frequency Active Auroral Research Program) has been altering the climate, and using high power microwave energy inducing earthquakes including the Asian Tsunami (2004) and earthquakes in Japan (1995), China (2008), Haiti (2010), Chile (2010). 

08.29 Was the Virginia Earthquake Induced by HAARP 

