Potres pregled : A very strong 5.8 earthquake has rattled the Virginia area at 1:51 PM local time.

Read also :  Video selection of the Virginia earthquake by Earthquake-Report.com

Watch also : Earthquake-Report.com has made a short video telling and explaining what happened. The video is embedded below or click here to watch it.

- This is a major disruption earthquake due to the low earthquake risk perception, with relatively minor consequences.

Earthquake-Report.com has labeled this earthquake as CATDAT ORANGE, not for the level  of structural damage, but due to the economic impact.

Louisa County, VA -   I was inside one of the seriously damaged schools when the earthquake  hit- debris was falling, very difficult to walk. Terrifying, horrifying  ordeal, but all children and staff escaped quickly and without a  scratch.  A miracle!  It lasted about 30 sekundi, and was followed by 3  aftershocks.  What I will probably always remember are the shepherd’s  hooks in the sidewalk that kept swaying, even after the noise and  vibration were no longer detectable.  I don’t need to experience another  one of these.  Ever. – MMI VII

Ažuriranje : This video is from CBS6 in Richmond, Virdžinija, closest big city to the earthquakes epicenter. 

Ažuriranje :  Based on what we have seen so far and also based on our experience in the field, we do not think that the damage will be severe and we hope to hear soon that no people will have been injured by this earthquake.

Ažuriranje : Generally we can state that the situation is quiet chaotic over the many states that have felt the earthquake. Most of the states outside the greater epicenter area have only experienced a weak shaking, nothing really dangerous, but we agree very frightening.

Ažuriranje : 2 Nuclear reactors have been halted after the Virginia quake. The Nuclear reactors at the North Anna Power Station in Louisa County are rather close to the epicenter. the Power plants were automatically taken off-line by the plants safety systems.  The NRC is sending inspectors to the plant to find out whether everything is OK. We do estimate that the distance from the power plants to the epicenter is 20 milja.

Louisa earthquake landscape - Panoramio image from BBest - http://www.panoramio.com/photo/3809386

North Haven, CT – MMI 5 checked – The floor underneath me at work shook NOTICEABLY (large plant/tree in front of my desk was SWAYING!) for about 15 – 20 sekundi. I looked outside to see if there was a huge 18-wheeler outside (and there was not). I’ve never felt an earthquake but I instinctively knew that this was something which could potentially be dangerous and I started to leave the building (1 story)but by the time I got up it had stopped.

New Jersey - MMI V – I was sitting at my desk at home and the entire desk was shaking and also my kitchen table. The dogs got up and was looking around to see what was up! I didn’t know what the heck was going on! I live in Northern New Jersey and my neighbor told me there was an earthquake! Crazy!

Oxford, Md. – MMI IV – Working in my office, seemed like floor became somewhat liquid, building movement less than 10 sekundi, but felt like I was on a boat in the water. Furniture swayed, pictures on wall moved, actually kind of exciting. No damage just the thrill.  Wow, an earthquake in Maryland. Go figure!

@ QuakeMaps : potres-report.com vijesti s mapiranje prijave svih potresa M 3.0 i više iz cijelog svijeta putem EMSC i USGS. Ovaj račun je stvoren za naše http://www.quake-maps.com web stranica 

