5.8 magnitude Virginia earthquake stuns Northeast U.S. – strongest quake in 114 years | The Extinction Protocol: 2012 and beyond

← 5.3 magnitude earthquake shakes southern Colorado- the largest quake in 40 years

“Highly unusual, once in a century” 5.8 Virginia earthquake leaves geologists puzzled →

5.8 magnitude Virginia earthquake stuns Northeast U.S. – strongest quake in 114 years

August 23, 2011 – MINERAL, Va. (AP) — One of the strongest earthquakes ever recorded on the East Coast shook buildings and rattled nerves from South Carolina to New England on Tuesday and forced the evacuations of parts of the Capitol, White House and Pentagon. Skyscrapers swayed in New York, and frightened workers spilled into the streets. The National Cathedral in Washington said its central tower and three of its four corner spires were damaged. There were no immediate reports of deaths, but fire officials in Washington said there were at least some injuries. The U.S. Geological Survey said the quake registered magnitude 5.8 and was centered 40 miles northwest of Richmond, Va. The White House said advisers told President Barack Obama there have been no reports of major damage to the nation’s infrastructure, including airports and nuclear facilities. Two nuclear reactors at the North Anna Power Station, in the same county as the epicenter, were automatically taken off line by safety systems, said Roger Hannah, a spokesman for the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission. The earthquake came less than three weeks before the 10th anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks, and in both Washington and New York it immediately triggered fears of something more sinister than a natural disaster. At the Pentagon, a low rumbling built until the building itself was shaking, and people ran into the corridors of the complex. The shaking continued there, to shouts of “Evacuate! Evacuate!” The Park Service closed all monuments and memorials on the National Mall, and ceiling tiles fell at Reagan National Airport outside Washington. All flights there were put on hold. In lower Manhattan, the 26-story federal courthouse in lower Manhattan, blocks from ground zero of the Sept. 11 attacks, began swaying, and hundreds of people streamed out of the building. The New York police commissioner, Raymond Kelly, was in a meeting with top deputies planning security for the upcoming anniversary when the shaking started. Workers in the Empire State Building spilled into the streets, some having descended dozens of flights of stairs. –Yahoo News

← 5.3 magnitude earthquake shakes southern Colorado- the largest quake in 40 years

“Highly unusual, once in a century” 5.8 Virginia earthquake leaves geologists puzzled →

51 Responses to 5.8 magnitude Virginia earthquake stuns Northeast U.S. – strongest quake in 114 years

No to both. I think everything was shaken in the tulmult, including building and cell phone towers. Mobile Cell service is unsually the first thing to go in an major earthquake. Faults in the U.S. are waking up.

It’s my understanding that cell service was interrupted due to EXTREMELY heavy call volume following the quake.  not from any damage to cell towers.  Gosh, we have that happen here in Norman, OK on football game days…  can’t get cell service cuz our town grows twice it’s size.  at kickoff, everyone seems to want to be on the phone with someone.  oh, and tornado threats, ya can’t get reliable cell service if a tornado warning goes out.  and i don’t think it’s the storm, it’s people calling other people!!

According to some news I saw, the quake was only 1 KM deep.  I believe this is a “shallow” quake, and shallow quakes are often felt more strongly.

It’s registering at 6 km, but they could always change and sometimes the first estimates are always wrong. An aftershock occurred that was less than 1 km….but you right, the shallower the quake, the most damage it can cause.

Well remember when I said I would start to worry when the USA starts getting earthquakes 5.0 or higher that time has arrived,just think if this would have happened along the new madrid all sand,the ground would have liquified and would have been very serious. The next one or more will be much more serious.Alvin what are youre thoughts on this and Colarado are they conected?

Many mothers were alarmed, children were all over the beach and in the water, and nobody knew where the quake was centered. Cell phones were not working and it was about 15 minutes until people started to report that it was on land in Va.  Meanwhile the lifeguards reassured the people that NJ has a seismic warning system out in the ocean and if there was a tsunami  there would be warnings. ( there are no sirens, but perhaps it would go to the firehouse and police?). I was a bit nervous and waiting to see if the water receeded at all, before we found out the EQ location, and wondering if I was an idiot to not run to my car immediately.   

My guess is the Virginia quake has torn a new gash along that fault – this may not be the last time she makes news. Thanks for the list,

I`M pretty sure you are going to be correct, hope this woke some people up to start to prepare, this was quite exciting for my family and myself to feel what an earthquake feels like, by the way I have been prepared for a few years now,  it`s going to get real interesting real soon, take care and get ready.

Finally, as exciting or frightening (depending on one’s point of view) the earthquake was, I am praying it is not taking people’s attention away from a very dangerous hurricane heading for the mid to upper East Coast. Now, more than ever, these people need to know what to do. 

Coming from southern CA, we’re pretty apathetic about earthquakes for the most part (last large one, they paused the ball game to the cheer of the crowd) – but, I do understand it was probably a bit of a shock for that region – can be pretty frightful for someone who has never felt one before (my boyfriend grew up in germany, and is pretty unnerved by the idea of the ground moving lol). And, judging by all the masonry in the street, buildings there clearly aren’t reinforced for seismic activity. Me, I’m much more intimidated by the idea of a hurricanes and tornadoes.

Scary experience. Wonder if any more big ones will hit here in Virginia. The only other earthquake I’ve experienced was a 4.8 or so in 2003, that was centered in Columbia, VA, just 40-50 miles west of where I lived at the time. This one in Mineral was approximately the same distance from where I live now. But it didn’t feel any stronger to me, for some reason. I was shocked when checking the news to find out it was a 5.9 and had been felt up and down the East Coast.

I just want to say thank you so much for your posts and to everyone for their comments. I learn so much from this blog, and have learned so much from your book as well.  I live close to the epicenter, and I thought my house was falling apart today because I was home alone and didn’t automatically think “earthquake” when I heard the loud noise and felt the walls shaking.  I was SO THANKFUL for the internet though because I got all the info quickly and I knew that you would post even more information here.   I am not looking forward to the day when we can no longer rely on electronic forms of communication. I think these recent earthquakes may be related to the heightened solar activity.

Last night my little grandson kept running in circles over and over.  His behavior reminded me of how animals act before earthquakes and other natural phenomena, so I laughed and asked him if an earthquake was coming because he couldn’t seem to stop himself from running around and around.  He looked me in the eye and told me “yes, Grandma”.  Then today the quake was felt all around our area and friends were calling to tell about what they experienced.  I was very interested to hear

this because we have had many “earthquakes” where I live due to the collapse of the AKZO-Nobel Retsof mine, and my daughter and I would always know a day before that one would occur.

I was in a building about 80 years old near Philadelphia.  Victorian type of house and on the second floor.  I felt the floor shaking under my feet and in the kitchen adjacent, i heard the ceiling fan rattling and appliances moving around.  It was about 20 seconds.  I realized it was an earthquake – not sure why.  But didn’t know its origins.  Never felt fear.  Actually, i was quite pleased to finally experience one.  And i could feel the general energy around me as feeling ‘charged’.

East vs. West quakes: Way different creatures

WASHINGTON (AP) — The East Coast doesn’t get earthquakes often but when they do strike, there’s a whole lot more shaking going on. The ground in the East is older, colder and more intact than the West Coast or the famous Pacific Ring of Fire. So East Coast quakes rattle an area up to 10 times larger than a similar-sized West Coast temblor.

Tuesday’s 5.8-magnitude quake was centered in Virginia and was felt up and down the Eastern seaboard for more than 1,000 miles. There hasn’t been a quake that large on the East Coast since 1944 in New York.

While this was a rarity for the East, a 5.8 quake isn’t unusual for California, Oregon, Washington and Alaska, where one occurs about once a year. Those states have had 103 quakes 5.8 or bigger since 1900, compared to now two in the East.

Read More at: http://news.yahoo.com/east-vs-west-quakes-way-different-creatures-004717502.html

I felt the NSW aussie Newcastle and Cessnock quakes back in 1989 and 1994. Also one in Picton about 30-40 years ago.   Really disorients one, especially if it wakes you up.

One day in the very near future we are going to wake up to the news & be witness to a million or more souls killed in a single massive event. This event will be so horrific, so life changing for Mankind that it will be utterly incomprehensible to those that are unaware of the changes that are upon us. In no way am I being flippant about Japan or this latest quake in the US or floods & storms anywhere else but these events will be mere childs play compared to what is on the horizon, headed straight at us.

I have to wonder whether the corner Libya has now turned and these two unexpected quakes in the US are but a sign of the next path we are about to go down.

Dominion Virginia Power said both reactors at its North Anna plant, less than 20 miles from the epicenter of the magnitude-5.8 quake, shut down automatically after the first tremors. Amanda Reidelbach, an emergency management spokeswoman for Louisa County, said the plant vented steam, but there was no release of radioactive material. David Heacock, the utility’s chief nuclear officer, said the 1,800-megawatt plant was operating on emergency power and the two pressurized-water reactors were safely deactivated. “The plants are designed for this kind of a seismic event,” Heacock said. “There is no apparent damage to anything at the plant right now.” Crews were working to restore off-site power to the plant Tuesday evening, the utility said. Dan Stoddard, senior vice president of nuclear operations for Dominion, said some power from the grid had been restored to the reactors and it was possible full power could be achieved late Tuesday. It was not clear if a 4.2-magnitude aftershock Tuesday evening would affect the operation. Stoddard said there was no damage to the spent fuel pool. The diesel generators supplying backup power have enough fuel to operate 30 days and more can be brought in, if needed, Stoddard said. “The power plant is safe,” Stoddard said. One of those generators failed a few minutes after it kicked in, said Joey Ledford, a spokesman for the Nuclear Regulatory Commission’s regional office in Atlanta. But only one generator is required to supply power to each reactor unit, leaving another unit in reserve, Ledford said.

this is crazy sh*$, I fear that a bigger one will occur. this can maybe be a foreshock, a foreshock is an earthquake who is slightly smaller than the main quake who happens after the foreshock, but this is very unusual for the east coast, and it is very far away from the tectonic plate boundary who goes out in the atlantic ocean, right in the middle of atlantic ocean. I think the west coast of u.s is prepared for earthquakes, because it is usual that it happens there, since the TPB(tectonic plate boundary) goes right outside the coast there. I hope this don’t happen on the other side of the other side of the TPB. I live right over the other side, I live in Nortwest-Europe(Norway)

Our channel 7 6pm news did not even mention the Virginia quake.  A 5.8 quake felt by that many people!    Channel 10 11pm news did.  “US had two earthquakes today, one in New York and one in Washington DC”!!!!!!!!!!  (so they didn’t have one in Colorado).  Unbelievable.  

“Our channel 7 6pm news did not even mention the Virginia quake.”

1619/786  It is all about 114. A message was decoded in the United States on January 5, 1974. The message is mathematically coded with 19 as its common denominator. The number of chapters in this message is 114, 19 x 6. The 5.8 magnitude that happened in Virginia was the strongest earthquake in 114 years! Nobody talks about the 5.3 magnitude that happened on August 22nd. That was the strongest earthquake since the 5.7 magnitude in 1973. 2011 – 1973 is 38 and 38 is 19 x 2. The local time of the 5.3 in Colorado was 11:46:19. The Book has 114 chapters, the last chapter has 6 verses, and 19 is its mathematical code. The Book is, without a doubt, a revelation from the Lord of the universe! It contains all the information, it is the sealed book prophesized in Isiah 29:11. Who but GOD can give such an accurate specification such as 114,6,19? Praise be to GOD, Lord of the universe!

6.6 magnitude earthquake strikes NW of Lake Toba super-volcano caldera

6.6 magnitude earthquake strikes just NW of Lake Toba super-volcano caldera: http://t.co/NA1NKCZ -The Extinction Protocol...5 hours ago

