 NRC Earthquake Upgrades "Nothing New"  Joseph Szafran chimes in on the recent report of the Limerick Generating  Station's reactors needing "upgrades to better withstand earthquakes." 

"How a Pressurized Water Reactor   Shuts Down during an event such as a hurricane or earthquake."

  Shuts Down during an event such as a hurricane or earthquake."

http://www.washingtonpost.com/national/health-science/at-north-anna-nuclear-plant-reassurances-but-no-final-data-on-quake-impact/2011/09/02/gIQAbZBrxJ_story.html At North Anna nuclear plant, reassurances but no final data on quake impact  By Brian Vastag , Published: September 2 Mineral, Va. — “It must be a burst steam pipe in the turbine room.”

 nuclear power plant senior operator Jason Russell when the Aug. 23 earthquake began shaking the facility’s control room.At North Anna nuclear plant, reassurances but no final data on quake impact  Within seconds, indicators showed a loss of electricity needed to cool the plant’s two reactors.

“That’s when I knew it was something else,” said Russell, 30, who was  supervising Unit 1 when the largest Virginia earthquake in more than a  century struck. 

 Idaho Samizdat: Nuke Notes Shifting views on nukes and quakesfrom Idaho Samizdat: Nuke Notes by djysrv@gmail.com (djysrv)Reactor operators and regulators scramble when the earth moves

Inspectors check Virginia nuclear plant for earthquake damage The inspection is unusual, said Scott Burnell, a spokesman for NRC.  Such “augmented inspection teams” are dispatched to nuclear plants  “infrequently. If I had to put a number on it I’d say once every couple  of years.” 

During the quake, 36 “scratch plates” at the facility  recorded ground motion in three dimensions, said Richard Zuercher, a  Dominion spokesman. Preliminary analysis of the plates performed by a  seismologist contracted by Dominion showed “the plant may have exceeded  design basis for ground-force acceleration,” Zuercher said. 

The  plant’s reactor containment buildings were built to withstand shaking  equal to 12 percent of the force of gravity. Dominion said on the day of  the quake that the plant would be safe up to a magnitude 6.2   earthquake. But the amount of shaking such a quake produces varies with  distance to the epicenter, depth, and the type of rock the quake occurs  in.

U.S. quake shows nuclear plants need checkups: Jaczko

U.S. quake shows nuclear plants need checkups: Jaczko

I will be on business travel Thursday, September  1. I will be posting over Labor Day weekend; however, I will be away a  few days next week. Hopefully no earthquakes and/or other weather  conditions will

Earthquake and Hurricane Irene Impact U.S. Nuclear Power Industry

Earthquake and Hurricane Irene Impact U.S. Nuclear Power Industryfrom OilPrice.com Daily News Update by admin@namecake.com (John Daly)Since  the 11 March Fukushima nuclear disaster, the global nuclear industry  has been mounting an aggressive PR campaign to convince an increasingly  skeptical public that not only is nuclear energy safe, it has a number  of benefits, such as zero carbon dioxide emissions.

 Powerful Earthquake Hits Japan; Tsunamis Expected to Hit Indonesia, Australia, Hawaii, Mexico   Posted:  10 Mar 2011 11:00 PM PST When a sm...

Perry Nuclear Power Plant prepared for quake (with...

Earthquakes, Hurricanes Highlight Serious Regulati...

