Printhttp%3A%2F%2Fwww.tvnewscheck.com%2Farticle%2F2011%2F08%2F24%2F53462%2Fvirginia-stations-roll-after-quakes-shakes%2Fformat%2Fprint

Yesterday afternoon’s unusual earthquake had stations near its epicenter mobilizing all their resources to tell viewers in Richmond, Lynchburg and Charlottesville what was happening through cut-ins and wall-to-wall coverage.

Within minutes of Tuesday’s Virginia earthquake, TV stations near the temblor’s epicenter went live with coverage letting viewers know what had rocked their world.

Rattled a bit themselves, news crews in markets like Richmond (DMA 57), Lynchburg (DMA 66) and Charlottesville (DMA 183) broke away from network programming with either wall-to-wall or live cut-in quake coverage.

Although damage from the 5.8 magnitude earthquake — which hit near Mineral at 1:51 p.m. and was felt along the East Coast — was minimal, the unexpected seismic event sent shock waves through the area.

WVIR’s team was in good company as the earthquake — which evacuated some newsrooms – sent crews scrambling to get information to viewers who wanted it fast and furiously.

At WTVR, Local TV’s CBS affiliate in Richmond, station employees from sales reps to support staff pitched in, while the station went wall-to-wall with earthquake coverage from about 2:30 to 6:30 p.m., according to Travis Ponton, a photojournalist and assignment desk editor.

WTVR, like other stations in the area, relied heavily on viewers’ Facebook and Twitter posts to learn how neighborhoods and residents were affected by the quake. The station aired video from its newsroom security camera to show the temblor in action.

From a newsperson’s perspective, the quake happened at a particularly opportune time, as its mid-afternoon strike meant there were plenty of people out and about to share their stories, said Jim Hanchett, news director of WCAV, Gray’s CBS affiliate in Charlottesville.

A reporter out for lunch at the time was able to get the security tape from a nearby supermarket. Another covered the quake from a local elementary school, where the reporter was supposed to be doing a story on today’s start of the school year.

Randy Smith, president of WSET, the Allbritton ABC affiliate in Lynchburg, said the station’s chief meteorologist (who apparently didn’t expect to use his Earth science education as a weathercaster in Virginia) sent out a Tweet confirming the quake just two minutes after it hit.

The stations' phone lines went wild as well. “Our switchboard was absolutely jammed for perhaps the first 40 minutes after the earthquake,” Smith said.

                                    In a 'never let a disaster go to waste' moment, Jay Rockefeller is using the VA quake to push his spectrum auction bill with the CTIA claiming that there was cellphone congestion.  But as this article shows, broadcast TV was right there providing emergency information in a way that no cellphone alert system could.  Of course, we out in California are asking, "5.8?  What's the big deal?"                                               	                   				

Printhttp%3A%2F%2Fwww.tvnewscheck.com%2Farticle%2F2011%2F08%2F24%2F53462%2Fvirginia-stations-roll-after-quakes-shakes%2Fformat%2Fprint

