5.9 earthquake hits Virginia, felt across East Coast, nuclear plant shut down - UPI.com

				Top News			 / U.S. News			/ Va. quake rattles Eastern Seaboard 

Va. quake rattles Eastern Seaboard

				People evacuate buildings on Broadway in New York City after a magnitude 5.9 earthquake strikes states on the east coast of the United States on August 23, 2011.       UPI/John Angelillo  

6.5 magnitude earthquake jolts Japan

6.1 quake shakes Aleutian Islands

RICHMOND, Va., Aug. 23 (UPI) -- An earthquake rattled Northern Virginia Tuesday, briefly causing a power shutdown at a nuclear plant and emptying the White House in nearby Washington.

The 5.8-magnitude quake was the strongest in Virginia in more than a century, and shook cities all along the Eastern Seaboard of the United States. U.S. emergency officials said there were no reports of major damage, but cellphone usage was congested and the public was asked to use e-mail instead.

The White House said President Barack Obama, on vacation in Martha's Vineyard off Massachusetts, held a conference call with Cabinet secretaries and advisers "to discuss the earthquake and the status of critical infrastructure."

The central tower of the National Cathedral, the highest elevation in Washington, sustained damage to three of its four spires, The Washington Post reported. Some animals at the National Zoo, evidently sensing the quake before it hit, seemed to call out warnings, the newspaper said.

The Pentagon, the world's largest office building, was partially evacuated after its foundation was shaken by the earthquake. Employees were permitted to return to work shortly after 2 p.m., the Post reported.

The U.S. Geological Survey, headquartered for the East in nearby Reston, Va., said the epicenter of the quake was 34 miles northwest of Richmond, Va., and 87 miles southwest of Washington.

The quake struck at 1:51 p.m. at a depth of 3.7 miles.

The Richmond Times-Dispatch reported the quake was felt in Washington, New York and North Carolina. The newspaper said buildings swayed, and damage reports had begun to trickle in.

The Times-Dispatch said the epicenter was not far from Dominion Virginia Power's North Anna nuclear plant in Louisa County. The quake knocked out power, but the utility said it had manually shut down both nuclear units without incident.

"We did lose on-site power, but all the diesel generators are up and running," Dominion spokesman Richard Zuercher told the newspaper 30 minutes after the quake. "Everything appears to be operating just fine."

Four miles from the quake's epicenter, residents of Mineral, Va., reported extensive damage to items inside homes, the Times said. Mineral has about 500 people.

In Rockville, Md., 10 miles north of Washington, the quake was felt for 20-30 seconds. It started slowly but built into an event that shook houses. One man said he could see the windows shake on neighbors' houses.

The quake stopped a tennis event in New Haven, Conn., and shook the field during an afternoon baseball game between the Mariners and Indians in Cleveland.

Play at the New Haven Open on the campus of Yale University was stopped after the shock of the earthquake shook the stadium. The building was also evacuated and matches resumed after a about three hours

The Virginia quake followed an 5.2-magnitude quake in Colorado Monday night. The quake struck at 2.5 miles depth, about 180 miles south of Denver and was the strongest in the area in more than 40 years. 

			Safety netting is seen installed over the nave of the National Cathedral as a safety precaution following the 5.8-magnitude earthquake that struck the east coast last week, in Washington on September 1, 2011. The nets will remain in place until repairs are completed to the Cathedral. The Cathedral will open to the public in time for the September 11th memorial service.  UPI/Kevin Dietsch		

