 Media! Tech! Parenting!

Media! Tech! Parenting!
Timely Topics on Parenting Digital Children

Home
About this Blog
Comment Policy
Disclosure
ISTE Conference Updates

Recent "Must Read" Articles

Education Needs a Digital Upgrade
Eighty Percent of Children Under Five Use the Internet
Erasing the Digital Past
Facebook Nation and Our Portable Lives
Facebook Users Who Are Under Age Raise Concerns
Stirring Up Facebook Fear
That Facebook Friend Might Be 10 Years Old…
The Rise and Inglorious Fall of MySpace
What Cell Phones Say About Parent Teen Communication

Example of a Cell Phone Contract
 Check out this cell phone contract 

Asking Permission Before Going Online …
I need to search he web!

Subscribe!

Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 15 other followers

Privacy & Security

12 Ways to Protect Your Online Privacy
A Web Pioneer Profiles Users by Name
Digital Birth: Welcome to the Online World
Digital Dossier Video
E-mail Fraud and Urban Legends
F.T.C. Backs Plan to Honor Privacy of Online Users
FTC on Protecting Kids Privacy
On the Web, Children Face Intensive Tracking
Privacy Lives blog
Privacy Rights Clearninghouse
Q and A about Snopes.com
Social Networks Must Protect Privacy

Visit WiredSafety.org
 

 

September 2011

M
T
W
T
F
S
S

« Aug
 
 

 1234

567891011

12131415161718

19202122232425

2627282930
 

Parent Education

AAP Media Health Topics
All things Digital
Ask the Mediatrician
Check Urban Legends @ Snopes
CNET- Tech Device Reviews
Common Sense Media
Computers at Home: Educational Hope vs. Teenage Reality
Get Game Smart
Get NetWise
HealthyChildren.org Media Information
How Does Media Multitasking Make Kids Feel?
iSafe Parent Information
Micropayments the Next Big Headaches for Parents
MySecureCyberspace.com
NetFamilyNews.org
NetLingo, What Your Digital Kid Knows
Outdoors and Out of Reach: Studying the Brain
Parents are Ignoring their Children for their Blackberry
Pediatrics Now
Plagiarism Lines Blur for Digital Age Students
Q and A about Snopes.com
Sneaky Ways Advertisers Attract Kids
Wired Safety

Social Networking Articles

4 lessons for Parents in a Constantly Connected World
7 Things to Stop Doing Now on Facebook
How Young is Too Young For Facebook?
How Young is Too Young to Start Social Networking
NYU Students Raise More than $100,000 to Build Facebook Alternative
Social Networking Guide for Parents
Talking to Kids About Social Media
The Pitfalls and Promises of Social Media and Kids

Want to Know LOTS More About Social Networking?
Are you a parent who wants to learn a lot more? Social networking professor, researcher, and all around guru, dana boyd (she prefers no caps), delivered this lecture at the  Olin College of Engineering in Needham, Massachusetts in 2009. Her presentation gives a terrific overview of the social networking world and offers a bit of a window that enables parents to peek into the digital souls of today's children and young adults.

Media Literacy

AAP Media Health Topics
AAP Media Information
Center on Media and Child's Health
Family Media Literacy – A Necessary Literacy for the Digital Age
Picture Books No Longer a Staple for Children
Watch What You Watch PSA Video

Digital Safety

American Academy of Pediatrics
Children's Hospital of Philadelphia
iCyberSafe
Review of Online Safety Websites
Wired Safety

Cyber-bullying

As Bullies Go Digital Parents Play Catch-up
Cyberbullying Tips
Five Myths About Bullying
Online Bullies Pull Schools into the Fray
Rumors, Cyberbullying and Anonymity
Some Ways to Thwart an Online Bully
There's Only One Way to Stop a Bully

M!T!P!  Mission
With so much marvelous resources available to help with digital parenting, it's impossible for even the most dedicated parent keep track. Media!Tech! Parenting! aims to highlight a few bits of news and information each week. The goal is to help parents learn more about their digital kids and the virtual world that children take for granted.

Watch this Film!
Recommended for a family movie night.

Archives
 Select Month  August 2011  (7)
 July 2011  (5)
 June 2011  (8)
 May 2011  (11)
 April 2011  (11)
 March 2011  (17)
 February 2011  (15)
 January 2011  (9)
 December 2010  (7)
 November 2010  (10)
 October 2010  (18)
 September 2010  (13)
 August 2010  (12)
 July 2010  (13)
 June 2010  (4)

Ask the Mediatrician

Evaluating Resources

5 Criteria for Evaluating Web Pages
Criteria for Evaluating Web Sites
Criteria to Evaluate the Credibility of WWW Sites
Q&A Evaluation Video
The News Literacy Project
Tips for Evaluating Web Sites
Video on Evaluating Web Sources

How Fast the World Changes

Beloit College Mindset Lists
Children of Cyberspace: Old Fogies by Their 20's
Growing Up Digital, Wired for Distraction
The Rise and Inglorious Fall of MySpace

Category Cloud
acceptable use answers to media questions Back-to-school digital reading Bookmark It! cell phones cultural changes digital citizenship digital devices and gadgets digital parenting digital photography digital world reading habits family conversations great sites for students homework media literacy online safety online security parent child conversations parent education parents and technology privacy research on the web resources to read risky behavior setting technology limits social media social networking technology changes teens and technology web research 
Contact us!
Send e-mail to Media! Tech! Parenting!

Good Books

Alone Together, Why We Expect More from Technology and Less from Ourselves
Born Digital: Understanding the First Generation of Digital Natives
Brain Rules
Hamlet's Blackberry
Kids and Credibility

Copyright and Attribution Information
MediaTechParenting by Marti Weston is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-Noncommercial-Share Alike 3.0 United States License.Based on work at MediaTechParenting.wordpress.com.
Permissions beyond the scope of this license may be available by emailing Marti Weston at  MediaTechParenting. To learn more about this blog go to the MediaTechParenting About page.

Cell Phones, Texting, and Kids

A Girl's Nude Photo and Altered Lives
Cell Phone Info-Common Sense Media
Cell Phone Information PDF
Cell Phone Safety Tips
Family Cell Phone Contract
Incessant Teen Texting Causes Health Concern

Keeping Up With Your Kid's World

2010 Kids and Family Reading Report
53 of the Best Tech Blogs
All Tech Considere-NPR
Boing Boing
David Pogue's NYTimes Blog
E-Books Top Hardcovers at Amazon
EnGadget
Gizmodo
Mashable
Read Write Web
Techilicious
That Facebook Friend Might Be 10 Years Old…
Wired

Keeping Track During a Disaster — A Helpful Kind of Tracking: Bookmark It!
Posted by Marti Weston on August 28, 2011

Nixle helps to aggregate data sources during a disaster.
If you haven’t had enough of hurricane Irene, PC Magazine just published 10 Mobile Apps for Tracking Hurricane Irene. Some are free and other are downloadable for a small charge.
Applications come from government agencies like NOAA, but there are also some that are more survival oriented. One helps users develop and share a disaster plan.

Nixle, the application on the left, allows a user to set up connections with data sources so the information comes to you. Every app is not available for every mobile platform.
Check out the PC Magazine presentation, featuring something for every type of disaster tracking personality.
 
Posted in Bookmark It!, digital parenting, resources to read, social media, web research | Tagged: digital parenting, digital safety, disaster tracking, disasters, hurricane Irene, PC Magazine |    Leave a Comment »

Keeping Gadgets Working When the Power Goes Off
Posted by Marti Weston on August 28, 2011

Visit the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA)
How does one keep mobile devices working during some type of emergency?
It’s been an eventful week here in Northern Virginia. On Tuesday we had an earthquake, 5.8 on the Richter magnitude scale, shaking lots of things at home and work to the floor. Almost immediately, on Wednesday, we began making preparations for hurricane Irene, the largest of its kind to move up the east coast of the United States in more than 50 years. In both cases, it’s been harder than usual to count on gadgets like mobile phones, iPads, tablets, and laptops.
For more than an hour after the earthquake, making mobile phone calls was difficult, though I found I was able to text easily. Now, during hurricane Irene (I am sitting by a window watching the rain fall in sheets), I worry about maintaining the battery charge of each gadget as long as possible, since the power is sure to go out at some point. Of greater concern is that, with millions of people losing power, it may take some time to get the power restored. Preservation becomes even more of a concern.
 Read the rest of this entry »
 
Posted in cell phones, digital devices and gadgets, electronic communication, iPhones and iPads, parents and technology | Tagged: charging batteries, disasters, gadgets, Gadgetwise blog, hurricane Irene, mobile devices |    Leave a Comment »

Choosing a New Laptop?  Back-to-School 2011 Digital Reading #3
Posted by Marti Weston on August 24, 2011

Check out the Techlicious website to read Picking the Best Back-to-School Laptop, a post by Suzanne Kantra.
Important Factors for Parents and Kids to Keep in Mind

Weight
Enough memory to complete the required tasks — think about what your child will be doing
Processing speed
Attractiveness and/or design (a big deal for some kids)
Security at school if it a laptop travels back and forth between home and school

Other Links to Help You Learn about Purchasing a Laptop Computer

How to Choose a Laptop or Desktop Computer - E-How
CNET Laptop Buying Guide – CNET
Laptop Buying Guide - TechSpot
Laptop Shopping Tips – PCWorld
The 10 Best Notebooks – Laptop Magazine

 
Posted in Back-to-school digital reading, digital parenting, laptops and notebooks, parents and technology | Tagged: buying guides, digital parenting, laptops, Notebooks and Laptops, Suzanne Kantra |    Leave a Comment »

The Virginia Earthquake: Oh How I Love Teaching and Technology
Posted by Marti Weston on August 24, 2011

My upstairs hallway
Yesterday in the District of Columbia (my school) and Virginia (my home), we had an earthquake, the largest quake in our area in 70 years. At school things rumbled and doors slammed, so most of the adults, who were preparing for the start of the school year, headed outside for a bit. At my house I returned to find pictures askew. A few things fell on the floor at home, but my neighbor checked on the house and picked them up before I arrived.
But here’s an interesting observation. On a day in August, when teachers like me are getting ready for the start of school — and bemoaning the end of summer just a bit — I found myself wishing the students were already back in school, because I know how special “the day after” can be for young learners and for me,too. Read the rest of this entry »
 
Posted in digital learning, digital parenting, parents and technology, teaching | Tagged: digital kids, digital learning, digital parenting, District of Columbia, earthquake, technology, United States Geological Survey, Virginia |    Leave a Comment »

Cool TechTips from David Pogue
Posted by Marti Weston on August 21, 2011

I’ve been carrying this May 18, 2011 article, The Ins and Outs of Using Gadgetry by New York Times tech guru, David Pogue, for three months. Actually, it’s worth carrying around so you can pull it out and get a few quick, and very helpful tips for whatever gadget you happen to be using.
Click to watch Pogue's 2006 TED Lecture.
Here are a few examples:

Skipping all of those irritating introductory messages on cell phones
Ensuring your digital camera focuses
Highlighting the address bar in your browser without taking time to grab the mouse
Using a few quick edit tips when you are writing
… and much more

I’ll admit to being a bit of a Pogue groupie. He always seems to have the answers, and if he doesn’t, he calls around (or messes around with the gadgets) until he does.
A Few David Pogue Links Read the rest of this entry »
 
Posted in parents and technology | Tagged: David Pogue, digital parenting, New York Times, tech tips, TED |    Leave a Comment »

Digital Research Tips: Back-to-School 2011 Digital Reading , #2
Posted by Marti Weston on August 10, 2011

September brings the start of a new school year, and once classes begin, it’s not long before the first research reports and projects are assigned. To get started, your child will head right to his or her computer; however, adult assistance at home ensures that a student uses quality sources, thereby developing stronger research skills over the long run.
Just about any time digital kids search for information at home, they fire up Google. While their teachers use substantial classroom time and energy introducing students to the best online research resources, children often need assistance applying these research lessons on their home computers.
As often as possible adults should remind children that results from Google — as wonderful as Google searching is — provide a huge number of links, many of them of questionable quality. Read this chart that compares Internet searches and online resource/database sources, written by a librarian at Monroe Community College, part of the State University of New York system. Read the rest of this entry »
 
Posted in digital parenting, Evaluating Web Resources, homework, online research, parents and technology, research on the web, searching | Tagged: back-to-school, digital parenting, Google, libraries, Monroe Community College, NCES Library Search, online databases, public library, research tips, school library |    Leave a Comment »

Filters: To Install or Not to Install? That is the Question! Back-to-School 2011 #1
Posted by Marti Weston on August 3, 2011

It’s almost back-to-school season, I’ve just been asked for my opinion about home network filters, and I’ve answered the way I always do: protective software programs are fine, but limited.
Yes, filters keep a certain amount of inappropriate content away from children, but the problem of access is not solved simply by protecting home computers and networks. Over the course of a day or week a child encounters many other connections to the world wide web — on laptops, smartphones, iPads, computers, in other people’s homes, and maybe even at a parent’s office. Not to mention all of the inappropriate advertising…
 Read the rest of this entry »
 
Posted in Back-to-school digital reading, digital parenting, online security, parent education, parents and technology | Tagged: Atlanta Constitution, Bill Husted, family conversations, filtering sofware, home networks |    1 Comment »

« Previous Entries

 

Blog at WordPress.com. | Theme: Andreas09 by Andreas Viklund. 

