Earthquake Strikes East Coast, Centered Near Richmond, Virginia | Popular Science

 

 

home

Login/Register
Newsletter

Subscribe 
RSS

 

GadgetsComputers
Cameras
Smartphones
Smart TVs
Video Games

CarsConcepts
Hybrids
Electric Cars
Auto DIY
More From Our Partner: Driverside

ScienceFuture of the Environment
Energy
Health
PopSci Eco Tour

TechnologyMilitary
Aviation
Space
Robots
Engineering

DIYProjects
Hacks
Tools
Auto DIY
More From Our Partner: Toolmonger

 
 

Galleries
Videos
ColumnsThe Grouse
Sex Files
Green Dream

 

Innovation Challenges
How It Works
Features
 

 
 
 

 

Tweet
Digg

Earthquake Strikes East Coast, Centered Near Richmond, Virginia 

By Dan Nosowitz
Posted 08.23.2011 at 2:17 pm
12 Comments

Earthquake Strikes East Coast
USGS

A few minutes ago, an earthquake struck the East Coast of the U.S., centered near Richmond, Virginia, says the U.S. Geological Survey, which gave it a preliminary magnitude rating of 5.8 (just updated to 5.9). Tremors were felt all throughout the Mid-Atlantic and Northeast--the PopSci headquarters in Midtown Manhattan shook a bit, causing a minor nerd panic. No injuries or damage have been reported yet.
Colorado was hit with a 5.3 magnitude earthquake yesterday, the state's biggest in decades. A series of minor earthquakes hit Northern and Southern California last week, with some continuing today, but the big one today was centered in Northern Virginia, near Richmond. Though no injuries or damage have been reported, several news sources are reporting that the Pentagon and U.S. Capitol building, both located nearby, have been evacuated. Cell phone service in New York city appears spotty, especially AT&T, though it's not clear whether that's related to the earthquake or the high number of calls undoubtedly being placed right now. 
We'll keep you updated as we learn more.

 
Previous Article: Controversy Should Not Stop Us From Developing Memory-Erasing Drugs, Neuroethicist ArguesNext Article: Scientists Who Cloned Dolly the Sheep Plan to Clone Endangered Scottish Wildcats Using Eggs From Spayed Pets

 
 
 

12 Comments

Link to this comment 

A_n_o_n 

    08/23/11 at 2:50 pm  

I live in Maryland and Verizon is currently having issues, presumably due to the overwhelming amount of people attempting to use the network. Land lines are obviously still functional.
 

Link to this comment 

BubbaGump 

    08/23/11 at 3:02 pm  

Solar flares, near miss asteroids, tsunami, earth quakes, wars, disease, famine, world economic down turn,December 21, 2012 is not to far away.
 

Link to this comment 

antic 

    08/23/11 at 3:23 pm  

I live in Richmond, VA.  Inside the one-story office where I work, it felt like a low flying plane (really low).  Once we got outside, you had to sit on the ground to feel it, but you could still see the glass doors shaking.  Most people in cars didn't even realize there was an earthquake.  I did hear from a co-worker's boyfriend that he witnessed a swimmer who couldn't get out of a pool because the waves trapped her in the middle.
 

Link to this comment 

GMarsack 

    08/23/11 at 4:09 pm  

I felt it here in Michigan. It felt like I was on a boat (www.youtube.com/watch?v=R7yfISlGLNU). My boss was like, "do you feel that?" I had thought it was just me and I suddenly was taken ill. That was the first time I've ever actually felt an Earth quake. Pretty wild.
 

Link to this comment 

beefymclovin 

    08/23/11 at 5:25 pm  

we have a serious deadly fault line here in the area where Arkansas Tennessee and Missouri meet. if it goes off, u will feel it in boston, again. happens every 200 years and its due again anytime now. look up new madrid fault n see for yourself.
 

Link to this comment 

Wairimu 

    08/23/11 at 5:27 pm  

I felt it on Long Island. Funny thing is I was talking about the Olympian gods and then about a minute later, the ground starts shaking. Cool stuff lol
 

Link to this comment 

riddle84 

    08/23/11 at 6:18 pm  

Since I'm from California, I can't help feeling a little bit amused by people on the east coast freaking out about an earthquake. That being said, an earthquake over there is actually a serious matter, since buildings in that region generally aren't specifically built to withstand earthquakes and preparations for what to do in the event of an earthquake are more or less non-existent there.
Solar flares, near-miss asteroids, tsunamis, earthquakes, wars, disease, and famine have all been with us over the course of our brief existence on this planet. As for world economic downturn, it has happened before, during the Great Depression. Also, back when the world was a smaller place, the Roman Empire suffered an economic crisis as well. If these events seem more frequent or brand new, I submit that it's mostly or entirely due to advances in communications, which have brought information about nearly every natural or man-made disaster in the world right to our doorstep. Look into the past, and you'll see that we weren't always so knowledgeable about events on our planet or out in the rest of the universe. In fact, it used to be so bad that we were only aware of events in our small part of the world, which we thought of as our entire world at the time. Of course, for some people in remote or developing parts of the world, that limited perspective still exists because they don't have access to or can't afford luxuries like computers, smart phones, books, magazines, or newspapers.
As for December 21st, 2012, I have no reason to believe that it will be the one doomsday prediction that will come true out of all the countless doomsday predictions that have failed. The fact that the Mayan calendar lasts so long is an incredible achievement for an ancient civilization, but when it ends, it will start again, just like the Gregorian calendar ends and starts again every 400 years. In fact, the Gregorian calendar ended for the first time in 1982, which is likely where Pat Robertson got the idea of the world ending in 1982.
 

Link to this comment 

BubbaGump 

    08/23/11 at 6:37 pm  

Not to forget Japan: "....A nuclear power plant in central Virginia has lost offsite power in the wake of a 5.8 earthquake centered northwest of Richmond, Va., U.S. nuclear officials said.The North Anna Power Station, which has two nuclear reactors, is now using four diesel generators to maintain cooling operations. The plant automatically shut down in the wake of the earthquake...,..."As far as we know, everything is safe," said Nuclear Regulatory Commission spokesman David McIntyre.
Nine nuclear plants have declared "unusual events" today, which is the lowest of four emergency situations, the NRC said. The plants are located in Virginia, Maryland, Pennsylvania and New Jersey....."
http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424053111903461304576526642400085456.html?mod=googlenews_wsj
 

Link to this comment 

Brett Warkoski 

    08/23/11 at 8:41 pm  

sheesh :) that was fun :) I was in the second story of a two story building. at first it felt like someone dropped a big object that would have vibrated the floor, but I noticed the chair in which I sat was shaking in a circular type pattern when I realized that it was an earthquake. I near bolted for the door if I wasn't so far from an exit !!!
 

Link to this comment 

aivey 

    08/23/11 at 9:55 pm  

This won't come as a surprise but...nothing was felt here in Texas. However, that map of all the recent seismic activity in the US is pretty interesting.
On another note, PopSci! What are you doing about these annoying spammers in your comments?
 

Link to this comment 

JediMindset 

    08/23/11 at 10:23 pm  

i live in Maryland and i felt it. at first i thought i was feeling dizzy than i noticed that the mirror started to shake. i was in the bathroom at the time and i was ironically thinking about super powers and being able to move objects with my mind. scariest experience in the bathroom.
 

Link to this comment 

jaydub 

    08/24/11 at 5:50 pm  

I guess I'm blind... I dont see any "spammers"
Or maybe you're paranoid... seeing spammers everywhere!
Been through multiple earthquakes living on the west coast...  The most recent of which was in Hawaii...  A 4.6 earthquake was responsible for knocking out power for around 24+ hours...  That was fun... Then there was Seattle area over 10 years ago...  didnt really notice that one.  Woke up the next day having heard that there was an earthquake...  the day went a long as normal.
 

 To comment, please Login.
 
 
 

Popular Tags

Science

global warming
medicine
physics
bacteria
How it Works
biology
food
robots
NASA
new technology
short science articles
evolution
nanotech

All Tags All Photos All Videos

 

Photo GalleriesRSS LinkScienceArchive Gallery: 10 Renowned Scientists Make Their PopSci DebutGallery: The National Zoo's Animals React to the EarthquakeGallery: Armoring Juno Against Fierce Solar Radiation+ More Photo Galleries

 

138 years of Popular Science at your fingertips.

 

 

 

Innovation Challenges

Make your ideas part of the revolutionNovel Barrier Materials or Formulations for Paper PackagingAward: $20,000 USDStreamline the Design of a Piezoelectric TransducerAward: $30,000 USDLearn morePowered by Innocentive

 

Popular Science+ For iPad
Each issue has been completely reimagined for your iPad. See our amazing new vision for magazines that goes far beyond the printed page

Download Our App
Stay up to date on the latest news of the future of science and technology from your iPhone or Android phone with full articles, images and offline viewing 

Follow Us On Twitter
Featuring every article from the magazine and website, plus links from around the Web. Also see our PopSci DIY feed

 

September 2011: The Education Issue
This month, discover the 30 most awesome college labs in the world, and admire brilliant high-school inventors.
Plus: The reinvention of the car, NASA's methane-lake space-boat, homemade gunpowder, and much more.
Read the issue here. 

 

Enter here

Learn more

 

Popular on Popsci

Most Viewed

ScienceGallery: The National Zoo's Animals React to the EarthquakeArchive Gallery: 10 Renowned Scientists Make Their PopSci DebutA Clever New Fishing Method, 'Conching,' is the Latest Trend Spreading Among Australia's Hippest Bottlenose DolphinsAnimals at the National Zoo React to D.C. EarthquakeDoctors Who Work With X-Rays May Be Adapting at the Cellular Level to Withstand Radiation Painless Protein Scaffold Lets Cavity-Ridden Teeth Re-Grow From the Inside OutFermilab Astrophysicist's Method Cuts Plane Boarding Times in HalfNASA Satellites Watch as Hurricane Irene Bears Down on East CoastEngineers of Laboratory-Grown Muscle Figure Out How to Make It Firm and StrongBrand-New Supernova Spotted Within Hours, Will Be the Most-Studied Star Explosion Ever

 

Most Commented

ScienceLatest Results from the Large Hadron Collider Do Not Look Good For the Supersymmetry Theory of EverythingStudy Finds That Injecting Old Mice With Young Mouse Blood Has a Rejuvenating EffectFermilab Astrophysicist's Method Cuts Plane Boarding Times in HalfA Clever New Fishing Method, 'Conching,' is the Latest Trend Spreading Among Australia's Hippest Bottlenose DolphinsNew Genetic Circuit Detects Cancerous Cells and Forces Them To Commit SuicideCERN Experiment Finds Possible Link Between Cosmic Rays and Climate ChangeNASA's Infrared Explorer Spots a Room-Temperature Brown Dwarf, the Coldest Star Ever FoundFYI: Can I Buy Land on the Moon?Jurassic Mammal Fossil Hints At Earlier Split Between Placental Mammals and MarsupialsEarth-Generated Panspermia: Scientists Describe How Earth Rocks Could Have Seeded the Rest of the Solar System With Life

 

Most Emailed

ScienceThis Week in the Future, August 29-September 2, 2011Scientists Map the Mouse Taste Cortex, Pinpointing Brain Regions That Detect Certain FlavorsArchive Gallery: 10 Renowned Scientists Make Their PopSci DebutNew Genetic Circuit Detects Cancerous Cells and Forces Them To Commit SuicideStudy Finds That Injecting Old Mice With Young Mouse Blood Has a Rejuvenating EffectHolographic Microscope Detects Bacteria on the CheapTo Fight Warming, Brits Plan to Launch a Huge Balloon and Really Long PipeFYI: Can I Buy Land on the Moon?Archive Gallery: 10 Renowned Scientists Make Their PopSci DebutOil Sheen Sighted in Gulf of Mexico Raises New Questions About Last Summer's Spill

 

 

Name

Address 1

 

City

State

 STATE
Alabama
Alaska
Arizona
Arkansas
California
Colorado
Connecticut
Delaware
DC
Florida
Georgia
Hawaii
Idaho
Illinois
Indiana
Iowa
Kansas
Kentucky
Louisiana
Maine
Maryland
Massachusetts
Michigan
Minnesota
Mississippi
Missouri
Montana
Nebraska
Nevada
New Hampshire
New Jersey
New Mexico
New York
N. Carolina
N. Dakota
Ohio
Oklahoma
Oregon
Pennsylvania
Rhode Island
S. Carolina
S. Dakota
Tennessee
Texas
Utah
Vermont
Virginia
Washington
W. Virginia
Wisconsin
Wyoming

Zip Code

Email

 

 
 
 
 
 

Today on PopSci.com

Archive Gallery: The Geodesic Life56564831Animals at the National Zoo React to D.C. Earthquake56517832State of the Bionic Art: The Best Replacements for My Flimsy Human Parts56415833A New Generation of Throwbots is Ready to Be Flung Into Battle56461834Gray Matter: Easy DIY Gunpowder56152835The Goods: August 2011's Hottest Gadgets55272836New Computer Chip Modeled on a Living Brain Can Learn and Remember56362837Punching Stan In The Face, In Ultra Slow Motion56274838Archive Gallery: A Century of Ambitious Amphibious Vehicles56251839Why Baccarat,  the Game of Princes and Spies, Has Become a Target for High-Tech Cheaters562438310Introducing the Popular Science/InnoCentive Education Challenge561288311Exploring the Serious, Complicated Relationship Between People and Objects Through Art561898312

 

Footer Menu

Subscribe to the Print Edition
Subscribe to the Digital Edition
Renew Subscription
Customer Service
Site Map
About Us
Contact Us
Advertising
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Abuse
RSS Feeds
PS Showcase

 
 
Copyright © 2009 Popular Science
A Bonnier Corporation Company. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without permission is prohibited.

 

 

 
