Decentworld.in! World of Computer Technology - powered by FeedBurner
&

Decentworld.in! World of Computer Technology

syndicated content powered by FeedBurner

...

Reset this favorite; show all Subscribe options

Subscribe Now!
...with web-based news readers. Click your choice below:

...with other readers:

(Choose Your Reader)FeedDemonNetNewsWireNewsFireNewsGator Outlook EditionRSSOwlShrookUniversal Subscription Mechanism (USM)

 View Feed XML

FeedBurner makes it easy to receive content updates in My Yahoo!, Newsgator, Bloglines, and other news readers.

Learn more about syndication and FeedBurner...

Current Feed Content

You Will Watch This Twice ...!

Posted: Mon, 05 Sep 2011 17:14:00 +0000

MEDIA ENCLOSURE: http://www.blogger.com/video-play.mp4?contentId=23446e4feada6106&type=video/mp4

Awesome Dance Performance By A Little Boy

Posted: Mon, 05 Sep 2011 17:08:00 +0000

MEDIA ENCLOSURE: http://www.blogger.com/video-play.mp4?contentId=fe55fa111d42a62&type=video/mp4

Funny Videos

Posted: Mon, 05 Sep 2011 17:06:00 +0000
Awesome Dance Performance By A Little BoyYou Will Watch This Twice ...!

Fun

Posted: Mon, 05 Sep 2011 17:04:00 +0000
Funny Videos

Winchester Mystery House

Posted: Mon, 05 Sep 2011 16:46:00 +0000
Location: San Jose, California   Coordinates: 37°19′6.10″N 121°57′2.74″W   Built: 1884   Architectural style: Queen Anne Style Late Victorian   Governing body: Private    The Winchester Mystery House is a well-known mansion in California. It once was the personal residence of Sarah Winchester, the widow of gun magnate William Wirt Winchester.  It was continuously under construction for 38 years and is reported to  be haunted. It now serves as a tourist attraction. Under Winchester's  day-to-day guidance, its "from-the-ground-up" construction proceeded  around the clock, without interruption, from 1884 until her death on  September 5, 1922, at which time work immediately ceased.The cost for such constant building has been estimated at about US $5.5 million (if paid in 1922; this would be equivalent to over $71 million in 2010).The Queen Anne Style Victorian  mansion is renowned for its size and utter lack of any master building  plan. According to popular belief, Winchester thought the house was  haunted by the ghosts of the people who fell victim to Winchester  rifles, and that only continuous construction would appease them. It is  located at 525 South Winchester Blvd. in San Jose, CaliforniaDeeply saddened by the deaths of her daughter Annie in 1866 of marasmus, and her young husband in 1881, Winchester consulted a medium on the advice of a psychic. The "Boston Medium" told Winchester that she believed there to be a curse upon the Winchester family because the guns they made had taken so many lives.  The psychic told Winchester that "thousands of people have died because  of it and their spirits are now seeking deep vengeance." Although this is disputed, popular belief holds that the Boston Medium told Winchester that she had to leave her home in New Haven and travel West,  where she must "build a home for yourself and for the spirits who have  fallen from this terrible weapon, too. You must never stop building the  house. If you continue building, you will live forever. But if you stop,  then you will die." Winchester left her New Haven home and headed for California. In 1884  she purchased an unfinished farm in Santa Clara Valley, and began  building her mansion. Carpenters were hired and worked on the house day  and night until it became a seven story mansion.  The June 1937 issue of Modern Mechanix  relates the story from then-current accounts as follows: "Winchester  and the baby girl died suddenly and Mrs Winchester, stunned by the  tragedy, fell into a coma so serious that physicians despaired of her  life. "Finally she recovered and, at a friend’s suggestion, visited a  medium. During a séance, according to those familiar with her story, she  received a communication from her dead husband in which he said: 'Sarah  dear, if our house had not been finished, I would still be with you. I  urge you now to build a home, but never let it be finished, for then you  will live. Another version of the story says that after the deaths of her  daughter and later her husband, she consulted a medium who told her that  she must build a house and never cease building it, otherwise the  spirits that killed her family members would come after her, too. After  that she began construction on the maze-like house full of twists,  turns, and dead ends, so that the spirits would get lost and never be  able to find her. One version states "She believed her only chance of a normal life was  to build a house, and keep building it. If the house was never  finished, no ghost could settle into it. The house contains many  features that were utilized to trap or confuse spirits. There are doors  that are small or lead nowhere and windows that look into other parts of  the house. The mansion may be huge but there are only two mirrors in  the whole place. This is because Sarah believed that ghosts were afraid  of their own reflection. Astute readers will notice that this makes no  sense at all. Winchester inherited more than $20.5 million upon her husband's death. She also received nearly 50 percent ownership of the Winchester Repeating Arms Company, giving her an income of roughly $1,000 per day, none of which was taxable until 1913.  This amount is roughly equivalent to about $22,000 a day in 2010. All  of this gave her a tremendous amount of wealth to fund the ongoing  construction."

Places

Posted: Mon, 05 Sep 2011 16:42:00 +0000
Winchester Mystery House

China deploys advanced n-missile on Indian border

Posted: Thu, 25 Aug 2011 16:55:00 +0000
China has deployed more advanced and  survivable solid-fuel nuclear capable CSS-5 MRBM missiles against India  as a 'deterrent posture', Pentagon has said warning that a high degree  of mistrust continues to strain their bilateral ties. 

The PLA has replaced liquid-fuelled,  nuclear-capable CSS-2 IRBMs with more advanced and survivable  solid-fuelled CSS-5 MRBM systems to strengthen its deterrent posture  relative to India, the Pentagon has said in its annual report on Chinese  military build up to the Congress. 

The report also says that Beijing is pumping in  huge investments on border infrastructure developments laying more roads  and rail network along the Sino-Indian border. 

"Although this construction is primarily aimed at  facilitating economic development in western China, improved roads could  also support PLA border defense operations," it said.

Pentagon said that New Delhi remains  concerned by China's close military ties with Pakistan and its growing  footprints in the Indian Ocean, Central Asia and Africa. The report  noted that Pakistan continued to be China's primary customer for  conventional weapons and sales to Islamabad included newly rolled out  JF-17 fighters with production facilities, F-22P frigates with  helicopters, early warning and control aircraft, tanks, K-8 trainers,  F-7 fighters, air-to-air missiles, anti-ship cruise missiles and missile  technologies. 

On Sino-Indian ties, Pentagon said, that though  bilateral dialogue between the two nations increased, border tensions  remained an irritant.  

"China deepened its ties with India through  increased trade and high-level dialogues in 2010, though border tensions  remained an irritant in the bilateral relationship. Bilateral trade in  2010 reached nearly USD 60 billion," Pentagon said. 

Apple shares fall after CEO Steve Jobs quits

Posted: Thu, 25 Aug 2011 16:46:00 +0000

Shares of Apple Inc (AAPL.O)  fell more than 4 percent in pre-market trading on Thursday, a day after  its iconic CEO Steve Jobs resigned, leaving right-hand man Tim Cook to  take on the mantle. The resignation sparked worries that his health has deteriorated further. Jobs has survived a rare form of pancreatic cancer."While  the news could weigh on shares in the near term, we think the company's  model is built to last, sustaining a digital way of life that other  industry participants have yet to rival," J.P. Morgan said in a research  note to clients.The brokerage  said the news would create an attractive entry point for investors  looking to build bigger positions in Apple and reiterated its  "overweight" rating on the company.The  Cupertino, California-based company's shares fell to $360 in trading  before the bell. They closed at $376.18 on Wednesday on Nasdaq.

Kim Kardashian, Kris Humphries Get Married

Posted: Wed, 24 Aug 2011 14:05:00 +0000
Reality TV star Kim Kardashian and basketball beau Kris Humphries got  married at a private 11 acre estate in Montecito, Calif. on Saturday.
Kardashian wore a Vera Wang gown, reportedly inspired by the dress  that Pippa Middleton wore at the wedding of Catherine (Kate Middleton),  the Duchess of Cambridge, IANS reported.The groom Humphries looked spiffy in an Ermenegildo Zegna tuxedo, with a white jacket and tie.Before the marriage, Kim thanked her friends and family on her blog for helping to plan her wedding."I can't believe it's finally here! Thank you so much to everyone who  made this day happen!!!!! You guys mean the world to me, and I want to  thank you for all your love and support," Kardashian wrote.
Some of the celebrities from the glamour world who attended the  wedding included Brody Jenner and Avril Lavigne, Lindsay Lohan with mom  Dina and sister Ali, Eva Longoria, Ryan Seacrest and Julianne Hough,  Kathy Lee Gifford, Mel B, Brittny Gastineau, LaLa Vazquez and Carmelo  Anthony, Sugar, Alan Thicke, Mario Lopez, Ciara, Joe Francis, Venus and  Serena Williams, Lara Spencer, Maria Menounos, Simon Huck and Jillian  Barberie.The newly married couple won't be able to make it for an immediate  honeymoon because of Kardashian's busy work schedule. However, they are  having another wedding reception in the Big Apple on Aug. 31.Start slide show to view the photos of the newlywed couple and Kardashian's most glamorous looks in recent times.

Top 5 Reasons Why Skype Wants GroupMe

Posted: Wed, 24 Aug 2011 13:52:00 +0000

 [1]  Following acquisition of video streaming service Qik  earlier this year, Skype's role as an innovator in driving unique mobile  user experiences grew bigger. The latest acquisition augments that  role. 
 
 With GroupMe, Skype can create the future of real-time communications so  people can easily stay connected to family, friends, clients and  colleagues anywhere in the world. On the other hand, GroupMe also gets  access to Skype’s 175 million monthly connected users.

 [2]  Skype already offers voice and video calling, SMS, and  basic one-on-one instant messaging service but GroupMe will bring group  messaging services to its product lineup. 
 
 GroupMe's group messaging experience works across multiple mobile  devices and platforms, it sits on top of text messaging and is  independent of wireless data. Most importantly, it will help Skype  seamlessly integrate into social networks and pose challenge to Google+  Huddle and even Hangouts. In a way, Skype is making sure that it has its  group communication bases covered.

 [3]  Om Malik at GigaOM  has an interesting take on the deal. "Skype can use GroupMe and other  apps it is buying up to build a communication platform for Microsoft’s  Windows Phone 7 offering. That would make a lot of strategic sense. In  addition, it would allow Skype/Microsoft to have a hedge against  Facebook," Malik said.

 [4]   Grouping friends is the biggest problem social network sites are facing  and nobody knows that better than Facebook and Twitter.

However, like Google+ Circles, classifying relationships is GroupMe's  specialty. And Skype was quick to realize that. "We share a very similar  vision, if not the same vision," GroupMe co-founder Jared Hecht said.  "We were on the exact same page when it came to what we really thought  were important issues in social, the future of social--that being,  helping people better interact with their intimate, real-life network.  It was a no-brainer for us."
 [5]  The GroupMe deal is a product acquisition. Skype, which is  an online messaging and phone service that uses voice-over-Internet  technology, was attracted to GroupMe because the latter offers a  group-texting service that creates a virtual chat room around text  messages.

Using GroupMe, you can create a phone number that anyone who signs up to  the group can text. The text can be delivered to anybody or everybody  in the group and you can make as many groups as you want. Another  interesting feature of GroupMe is that it works for conference calls as  well — anyone can dial the GroupMe number and start a group chat. And as  nobody knows better than Skype the enormous value group texting  carries, it didn't hesitate to swallow GroupMe.

Skype said in a blog post  that GroupMe complements its "existing leadership in voice and video  communications by providing best in class mobile text-based  communications and innovative features around group messaging that  enable users to connect, share locations and photos and make plans with  their closest ties."

However, the deal is as much a talent acquisition as it is a product  acquisition because it helps Skype bring on board savvy engineers and  professionals without having to poach them with sweet deals or spend a  lot of time hunting down talent. Let's not forget, the twentysomething  GroupMe co-founders Jared Hecht and Steve Martocci were able to turn a  hackathon idea into a working and popular application and were able to  build an entire company within the span of a year.  

 

Apple iPad 3 With Retina Display to Ship in Early 2012

Posted: Wed, 24 Aug 2011 13:39:00 +0000

Apple will kick off the trial production of iPad 3, the next  generation model of its best-selling tablet iPad in October and is  gearing up for a full-fledged launch in early 2012. But what features  will it boast of?
The Cupertino-based company is planning to fit iPad 3 with retina  display, which technically will double the screen resolution from  1024x768 to 2048x1536.This isn't surprising because the latest generation iPhone - iPhone 4 - comes with retina display too.Moreover, the rumor that iPad 3 will be released in early 2012 falls in line with an earlier report from DigiTimes that  release of iPad 3 has been delayed from Fall 2011 to the first quarter  of 2012 because Apple's retina display suppliers are finding it  difficult in reaching the target numbers.
 Furthermore, a release in early 2012 would coincide with the launch  schedules of the previous two iPads. The original iPad was launched on  April 3, 2010, with its successor arriving less than a year later on  March 2, 2011.The Wall Street Journal was  the first to unleash the latest rumor on iPad 3. Citing unnamed  sources, the venerable newspaper said iPad 3 will be hitting stores  early in 2012 and testing of the device will commence this year in  October.
 An Apple component supplier told WSJ that Apple has already placed  orders for parts of 1.5 million iPad 3s in the fourth quarter."Suppliers will ramp up production and try to improve the yield rate  for the new iPad in the fourth quarter before its official launch in  early 2012," a person at the supplier told WSJ.
 The rumors on iPad 3 swirling on the Web say the tablet will be  thinner, lighter and faster than existing models and will be equipped  with a better screen.Apple's iPad is a huge success - as of early August, an estimated 29  million iPads have been sold since the tablet went on sale in April  2010, which will help the tablet own 61 percent of the market by the end  of the year. The technology giant also said it sold 9.25 million units  of the tablet in the fiscal third quarter or nearly a triple of what it  sold a year earlier. However, iPad is feeling the heat from rival  tablets such as Motorola Xoom and Samsung Galaxy Tab 10.1. The latter,  which is slightly thinner and lighter, especially is threatening to end  iPad's dream run. Though similarly priced, Galaxy Tab is equipped with  better front-facing and rear-facing cameras and a bigger screen.
 While ZTE Corp, Toshiba Corp, Lenovo, Sony and ASUS have launched  tablets with specs similar to iPad, online retail giant Amazon is also  expected to launch a new Kindle-type tablet that will threaten the iPad.Amidst this growing competition, iPad needs to distinguish itself from the rest if it has to retain its control over the market.
 Of course, Apple has one less competitor to worry about now that HP  has dropped out of the tablet race, but it can't afford to wait for its  rivals to catch up, or worse, surpass it with features and performance.Unfortunately, Apple is notoriously secretive about new product  launches and so we don't know for sure what features will iPad 3 boast  of.

Virginia Earthquake 23 Aug 2011

Posted: Wed, 24 Aug 2011 13:31:00 +0000

 The 5.8 magnitude Virginia earthquake of 2011 occurred at  1:51 p.m. (EDT) Tuesday, Aug. 23, in the Central Virginia Seismic Zone,  which is believed to have produced the strongest magnitude in the  history of Virginia in May 1897, a 5.9 earthquake in Giles County.   The U.S. Geological Survey says the area has produced “small and moderate earthquakes since at least the 18th century.” The last known earthquake to have originated from the zone's  epicenter occurred in 1875, when effective seismographs were not  invented, but the damage from the shock suggested that it had a  magnitude of about 4.8, USGS said. “The 1875 earthquake shook bricks from chimneys, broke plaster and  windows, and overturned furniture at several locations,” the agency's  statement said. Another earthquake from the Central Virginia Seismic Zone that caused  minor damage occurred Dec. 9, 2003, and had a magnitude 4.5. Though Virginia earthquakes rarely have caused injury, tremors can be felt over a wide region.
East of the Rockies, an earthquake can be felt over an area as much  as 10 times larger than a similar magnitude earthquake on the West  Coast,” USGS stated. Here are a few maps that explain the earthquake, its locations,  shocks that were felt across eastern U.S., damages it caused and more.According to the USGS PAGER (Prompt Assessment of Global Earthquakes for  Response) system that provides shaking, fatality and economic loss  impact estimates following significant earthquakes worldwide, the  shaking alert level for the Virginia earthquake is orange, which  accounts for economic losses only. Significant damage is likely and the  disaster is potentially widespread.

Interesting science facts - 50 amazing science facts

Posted: Sat, 20 Aug 2011 14:31:00 +0000

1. Word "Science" derives from Latin word scientia meaning knowledge.

2. Human need approximately 12 hours in order to entirely digest the food. 

3. Brain cells are the longest living cells in our body, they can last for an entire lifetime. 

4. Some human brains are bigger than other and the biggest human brain weighed 2,3 kg. 

5. Venus is the hottest planet in our solar system with surface temperature above 450 C. 

6. If we are to believe scientists there are approximately 50,000,000,000 galaxies "out there". 

7. Sound travels 4 times faster in water than in air. 

8. One of the most accidental discoveries was the one of microwave. This  discovery happened after a researcher walked by a radar tube and a  chocolate bar melted in his pocket. 

9. Kissing or shaking hands? In terms of germs be aware that more germs are transferred shaking hands than kissing. 

10. Our moon is extremely dry, it is for instance one million times drier than the infamous Gobi Desert. 

11. The highest recorded temperature on Earth was measured in Libya in 1922, and it was 58°C. 

12. The lowest recorded temperature on our planet was -89.6°C. This was measured in Antarctica in 1983. 

13. Not all animals on our planet have brains, for instance starfish do not have brains. 

14. Kangaroos are lacking ability to walk backwards. 

15. Eyes always remain same in size since the time we are born and till  the moment we die, unlike our ears and nose that are constantly growing  throughout our life. 

16. Only humans have ability to sleep on their backs. 

17. Our brain isn't much different than the rest of our body in terms of water since 80 % of our brain is water. 

18. Our brain for proper functioning needs about quarter of total oxygen used by our body. 

19. Crocodiles are not only swallowing unlucky victims but also the stones in order to help them dive deeper. 

20. While cancer is perhaps the greatest disease of humanity, sharks do  not have this problem as they are totally immune to cancer. 

21. Surprisingly enough little mosquito has 47 teeth. 

22. Ants are so hardworking that they even do not sleep. 

23. In terms of rapid procreation rats lead the way since two rats can  have after year and the half more than 1 million descendants. 

24. Our fingernails are growing much faster than our toenails, about 4 times faster. 

25. Talking about the hot stuff - The highest temperature produced in a  laboratory was 920,000,000 F (511,000,000 C) at the Tokamak Fusion Test  Reactor in Princeton, NJ, USA. 

26. Hurricanes cause havoc which is really no surprise since a typical  hurricane produces the energy equivalent to 8,000 one megaton bombs. 

27. Polar bears may look slow and fat, but they are in real life far  from it since they can run at 25 miles an hour and jump over 6 feet in  the air. 

28. Mosquitoes like women more than men since they very much like smell of estrogen. 

29. In case you have ever wondered why giraffes are such a quiet animals  it is because they have no vocal chords to make any noise. 

30. Interesting enough, Earth is the only planet in our solar system that hasn't been named after some Roman or Greek god. 

31. Year is not always longer time period than a day. Mercury for  instance has one day on the planet twice as long as one year. This is  because Mercury rotates very slowly but revolves around the Sun in  slightly less than 88 days. 

32. Our Sun may be gigantic but it still loses 360 million tonnes of material each day. 

33. In case you want to be taller than the perfect profession for you is  astronaut since astronauts can be up to 2 inches taller returning from  space.This happens because the cartilage disks in the spine expand in  the absence of gravity. 

34. In case you ever wonder how much does a gallon of water weighs the answer is 8.34 pounds (3.8kg). 

35. Though many would say otherwise hot water freezes quicker than the cold water. 

36. Albert Einstein had speech difficulties in early age. 

37. Lions are excellent hunters especially when you consider that they  usually hunt in coordinated groups and stalk their chosen prey. 

38. Methane is extremely potent greenhouse gas and cows are among the  largest methane emitters with each domestic cow emitting about 105  pounds of methane a year. 

39. So far scientists have discovered over 20 planets outside our solar system. 

40. Spacecrafts are extremely fast, with fastest one going to 40,000 mph. 

41. Can you live without you head? Well if you are a cockroach you can manage somewhere around 9 days or so. 

42. So how alike are humans and chimps? Well if you consider that we  share 98.4% of our DNA you could say a very lot, though on other hand we  do share 70% of our DNA with a slug. 

43. Human fetuses are in fact great fans of rock music since they react  to loud rock music by kicking, or does this mean that they hate rock? 

44. Average male brain is larger than average female brain (1,4 kg to 1,25 kg). 

45. Humans are not the only creatures on Earth that cry, elephants are crying creatures too. 

46. Polar bears would make perfect thieves since they cannot be detected by infrared cameras because of their transparent fur. 

47. Rats are really fast lovers, especially desert rats that can copulate 122 times an hour. 

48. Lefties are really in minority since 88% of all humans are right handed. 

49. Smelly feet are likely to get you in more trouble with mosquitoes since they prefer people with smelly feet. 

50. Snails are definitely among the sleepiest animals as they can sleep for three years.   

Science

Posted: Sat, 20 Aug 2011 14:19:00 +0000
World's Most Powerful Optical Microscope: Microscope Could 'Solve the Cause of Viruses'

50 Amazing Science Facts

World's Most Powerful Optical Microscope: Microscope Could 'Solve the Cause of Viruses'

Posted: Sat, 20 Aug 2011 14:06:00 +0000

Previously, the standard optical microscope can only see items around one micrometre -- 0.001 millimetres -- clearly

But now, by combining an optical microscope with a transparent  microsphere, dubbed the 'microsphere nanoscope', the Manchester  researchers can see 20 times smaller -- 50 nanometres ((5 x 10-8m) --  under normal lights. This is beyond the theoretical limit of optical  microscopy.

This hugely-increased capacity means the scientists,  led by Professor Lin Li and Dr Zengbo Wang, could potentially examine  the inside of human cells, and examine live viruses for the first time  to potentially see what causes them.

The existing microscopes  which have the capacity to examine tiny items -- electron microscopes --  can only see the surface of a cell rather than examining its structure  and there is no tool to see a live virus visually.

The  scientists, from the School of Mechanical, Aerospace and Civil  Engineering, now believe they can use the microscope to detect far  smaller images in the future. The new method has no theoretical limit in  the size of feature that can be seen.

The new nano-imaging  system is based on capturing optical, near-field virtual images, which  are free from optical diffraction, and amplifying them using a  microsphere, a tiny spherical particle which is further relayed and  amplified by a standard optical microscope.

Professor Li, who  initiated and led the research in collaboration with academics at the  National University and Data Storage Institute of Singapore, believes  their research could prove to be an important development.

He  said: "This is a world record in terms of how small an optical  microscope can go by direct imaging under a light source covering the  whole range of optical spectrum.

"Not only have we been able to  see items of 50 nanometres, we believe that is just the start and we  will be able to see far smaller items.

"Theoretically, there is no limit on how small an object we will be able to see.

"The  common way of seeing tiny items presently is with an electron  microscope, and even then you cannot see inside a cell -- only the  outside. Optical fluoresce microscopes can see inside the cells  indirectly by dying them, but these dyes cannot penetrate viruses.

"Seeing  inside a cell directly without dying and seeing living viruses directly  could revolutionize the way cells are studied and allow us to examine  closely viruses and biomedicine for the first time."

Google launches Google Magnifier

Posted: Sat, 20 Aug 2011 12:21:00 +0000

The search engine giant Google unveiled Google Magnifier, a music blog  for users of Google Music Beta. Google Magnifier helps users of its  online music-storage service discover and obtain new music.
 
 This is an attempt by the search engine giant to differentiate its Music  Beta service from its rivals like Amazon's Cloud Music and Apple's  forthcoming iCloud service which is anticipated to get released in fall.  Google offers the service by rendering two tracks by Grammy-nominated  indie rock band's album 'My Morning Jacket' to Music Beta users.

In addition to free music tracks, the site features videos of live  performances, artist interviews, and a chance to explore music genres. 

 The music-storage service by Google, allows the users to upload their  music libraries and replay them on PCs and mobile handsets. 

Clouds of boredom over social media

Posted: Sat, 20 Aug 2011 11:53:00 +0000

Is the sensational world of social media hit by fatigue? Gartner comes  up with a new survey which reveals that social media's early embracers  are starting to use their favorite sites less.

But it should not be concluded that social media audience is not  growing. Out of 6,295 responders, 37 percent says that they use social  media sites more (mainly in teens and twenties) and 31 percent says they  use less of media sites.  			 
Gartner says, "The trend shows some social media fatigue among early  adopters, and the fact that 31 percent of Aspirers (younger, more  mobile, brand-conscious consumers) indicated that they were getting  bored with their social network, is a situation that social media  providers should monitor, as they will need to innovate and diversify to  keep consumer attention."

Gartner suggested social media sites to come up with something new and  exciting that can recapture people's interest. Another part of the study  says 40 percent of the respondents from the U.S., U.K., and Japan (all  considered early adopters of social media) says they're using social  media sites less. Moreover Gartner adds, that Facebook is taboo- it's  been "making headway in countries where they have not historically been  strong."  Waiting could be a worth, if a new study next year would  pronounce Facebook  still leading the charts with Google+ entering the  competition.

Technology News

Posted: Sat, 20 Aug 2011 11:47:00 +0000

Clouds of boredom over social media

Google Launches Google Magnifier 

Apple iPad 3 With Retina Display to Ship in Early 2012

Apple shares fall after CEO Steve Jobs quits

How to Hack Windows Time

Posted: Sat, 20 Aug 2011 11:31:00 +0000
Watchout the below steps to hack Windows time.

Healthy Computing

Posted: Sat, 20 Aug 2011 11:06:00 +0000

The Heathly Computing Guide shows you ways to stay comfortable and productive while using your computer.

Click Here To Download 

Volkswagen 2028 Concepts

Posted: Sat, 20 Aug 2011 09:40:00 +0000

Volkswagen is 20 Years ahead in planning since 2008 for vehicles for the future.This is the collection of the 2028 models. ALL new models feature the  Volkswagen Room, Ego, And one that will make a big debut, The one. (Yes  "One" Is the name")
MEDIA ENCLOSURE: http://www.blogger.com/video-play.mp4?contentId=7fb4ba33036b8760&type=video/mp4

6 Reasons you must read before Joining Online Affiliate Programs

Posted: Thu, 18 Aug 2011 14:50:00 +0000

Are you looking for a very cost effective way to  make an extra income? Let me show you why online affiliate programs are a  great answer to your needs...

You must have been exposed to the  online hype, and the fact is starting an online business is a great way  to make an extra income. There are many ways to make money online, one of them, is joining online affiliate programs...

Here are six great reasons (only) why this could be exactly what you are looking for. I respect your time, so I’ll keep each point brief. Here we go...

1. Your Products

Many  people don’t have their own products to market online, and even if they  do, they would have to handle the shipment of the products to every  corner of the world, or they would narrow their market to specific areas  only.

Online affiliate programs provide a wide variety of  quality products, which meet every customer’s needs, and you can market  those products world wide without worrying about their shipment. All you  need is to refer people to your affiliate websites. Any orders taken  from that website are automatically handled by the company on your  behalf.

2. Your Income Potential

Besides the commission you can earn from direct products selling, there’s another powerful  way to make a great income online - residual income, and this is by  referring other people to join the opportunity. This way you can build a  network of people where you make a commission for each sale they  make...

Some companies limit you to one level of sponsored  affiliates, which mean, you only get commission for the sales of the  first level of people you refer, however, MANY other great companies do  NOT limit your income potential, actually, it’s infinite deep network  where you can enjoy passive income.

3. Your Investment

The  great news is – you are NOT required to put any money down in order to  join an online affiliate opportunity, you can join for FREE! Some of  them might claim that you must purchase their products (you should avoid those...), even though I believe in the concept of purchaseing from your own store, real opportunities should not force you to perform nor limit your potential, so it is all up to you.

Of  course, any kind of business requires some kind of investment,  generally speaking it’s a trade off between time and money, the more you  are willing to invest, the less time you need to build a solid  business, and vise-versa. So it is all up to you.

4. Your Business Training

Some  of the great online business will train you for FREE. Do NOT take this  lightly, if you are serious about making real income, you will need proper training to build your business effectively, this will save you time AND money!

The  information I have learned is priceless! I learned how to master the  science of marketing, and it was easy for people like me (I’m a computer  software engineer who knew NOTHING about marketing!) to build a  successful business. As I already mentioned, this training is available  to you for FREE even before they see a penny from you!

5. Your Business Needs

This is extremely important. To have a successful online business, you must  have the proper tools like tracking software, websites, follow-up  manager and more. Without those tools, you are shooting in the dark and  you’ll waste your time and money.

The serious online affiliate opportunities will provide you with those must have tools, and will guide you exactly how to use them in your favor. Again, FREE of charge!

6. Your Bottom Line

I’m  well aware to the fact that the bottom line of any business, including  online business, is making money. However, there are issues beyond that,  those are the issues behind your desire to make money, either to spend  more time with your family, get out of debt, own your own home or you  name it...

Affiliate programs can be a great way to achieve  whatever reasons you might have that triggered you to search for ways to  make an extra income. Just make sure you join a great opportunity that  is willing to invest in your success, because your success means also  theirs

3 Keys To Success With Your Affiliate Program

Posted: Thu, 18 Aug 2011 14:38:00 +0000
Affiliate programs (also called Referral Programs or Partnership Programs) are essentially commission-based sales schemes.  
 
 Joining an affiliate program is a neat way to make money from your  users. But just as you can join someone else's affiliate program, so you  can set up your own program and invite webmasters to sign up. Here are  my top 3 tips to succeed with your own affiliate program. 
 
 
 1. How to attract affiliates 
 
 One of the biggest fears new Affiliate managers have is in finding new  affiliates. This fear is a stumbling block that stops many site owners  from getting started with affiliate marketing. Interestingly, with a  proper marketing strategy, getting affiliates may not be very difficult.  Given below are some tips that may help in attracting new affiliates.
 
 Find complimentary sites - "Complementary" sites are sites that sell  products or services that compliment your offers. If you sell "gardening  tools", a site that sells books on "gardening tips" would be a perfect  affiliate. 
 
 Find content sites - There are many sites that do not sell any kind of  product or service but are mainly content oriented sites. Such sites  promote an idea, concept, study or belief. Content sites that are used  as a resource for your target market are ideal affiliates.
 
 Finally, there are several sites on the Internet dedicated to listing  affiliate Programs. Get your program listed in these directories.
 
 
 2. Classifying Affiliates for Better Management
 
 The hardest part of administrating an Affiliate Program is deciding what  your affiliates need to help make the sale. But, by carefully  categorizing your affiliates, you can easily determine what their needs  are and how to accurately meet them. 
 
 The first step is to pick at least three types of affiliate. Take a look  at your affiliates and try to determine one outstanding characteristic  that can easily be compared across the board and choose at least three  types of the characteristic.
 
 The Second Step is to determine the needs of each type. Each of your  affiliate types will have different needs; some of their needs will  overlap, but you should find a distinct difference in many of their  needs. If you find that all of them have the same needs, go back to step  one and re-think your types.
 
 The Third Step involves the process of creating and compiling linking  methods for each group of affiliates. Based on the needs you identified  in Step two, create and compile linking methods for each type. 
 
 
 3. Safe Guarding Against Spam
 
 Any time you run a program where your affiliates rely on other signups  to generate profits, you will eventually have a problem with spam. One  of your affiliates will inevitably get it into their head to blitz the  Web with unwanted garbage. 
 
 When this happens you need to be ready to take action otherwise it will  cost you! Your Internet company can boot you off your server and you can  find yourself blacklisted. Not good for business. If you get an email  from someone claiming they received spam with your URL, then take it as  an early warning. 
 
 I am not advising you to immediately terminate the affiliate's account,  but be sure to contact them to follow up on the complaint. Let your  affiliate know you received a complaint and advise them to remove this  person from their list. 
 
 If you only get one or two complaints, it's probably not spam, the  complainants might simply have signed up for an email list and forgotten  all about it. You will know when one of your affiliates is spamming,  because you will get anywhere from 10 to 100 complaints in the same day  all regarding the same URL. 
 
 The best thing to do in this case is to immediately terminate or disable the account of the affiliate URL that was spammed.
 
 Running your own affiliate program can become an extrememly profitable  venture for your business. You can recruit a HUGE sales force promoting  your products for you, and ONLY pay them when you make a sale!

Affiliate

Posted: Thu, 18 Aug 2011 14:35:00 +0000

3 Keys To Success With Your Affiliate Program

6 Reasons you must read before Joining Online Affiliate Programs

"Conan The Barbarian" returns in 3D

Posted: Wed, 17 Aug 2011 16:56:00 +0000
A still from the movie ‘Conan The Barbarian 3D’ that releases in India  on 26th August 2011. The iconic barbarian from the eighties is back in a  3D  avatar with Baywatch-star Jason Mamoa in the lead in 'Conan The   Barbarian'

FeedBurner delivers the world's subscriptions wherever they need to go. Publish a feed for text or podcasting? 
You should try FeedBurner today.

