
      Did Fracking Cause the Virginia Earthquake? - Dr Stuart Jeanne Bramhall - Open Salon 
    

HomeBlogsTopicsHelp

Join now
Sign in

The Most Revolutionary Act
Diverse Ramblings of an American Refugee

Dr Stuart Jeanne Bramhall

Add as FavoriteSend messageRSS 

Location

      	New Plymouth, New Zealand      

BirthdayDecember 02

Bio63 year old psychiatrist, activist and author of young adult novel THE BATTLE FOR TOMORROW about 16 year old girl who participates in the blockade and occupation of the US Capitol. In 2010 I published a memoir THE MOST REVOLUTIONARY ACT: MEMOIR OF AN AMERICAN REFUGEE. It describes my decision in 2002 - owing to extensive government harassment - to close my 25-year Seattle practice to begin a new life in New Zealand. More information about both books (and me) at www.stuartbramhall.com 

MY RECENT POSTS 
Revolutionary Change: an
Expatriate PerspectiveSeptember 04, 2011 05:22PMThe Bush EPA and FluorideSeptember 02, 2011 05:55PMEnding Water Fluoridation: One
We Can WinAugust 31, 2011 02:47PMSticking It to Ron PaulAugust 29, 2011 03:17PMThe Tyranny of Opinion PollsAugust 27, 2011 07:40PM

MY RECENT COMMENTS 
“Behold the Pale Horse
also talks about the
Pentagon
manufacture of HIV at
Fort Di…”September 03, 2011 08:08PM“Thanks for the
thoughtful comment, Don. I'm
not alone. I
happen to be one
of 2,00…”September 02, 2011 10:42PM“Thanks, John. What's
really exciting is that now
that we've
organized a strong
an…”September 02, 2011 09:37PM“Unfortunately, Kate, the
ADA has absolutely no peer
reviewed
research evidence
to…”August 31, 2011 11:11PM“Hear, hear. I'm a very
strong supporter of IRV. We
have a
Mixed Member
Proportion…”August 31, 2011 04:01PM

Dr Stuart Jeanne Bramhall's Links

New list

					The Most Revolutionary Act (reviews)				

					The Battle for Tomorrow - new book				

					Dr Bramhall on Radio				

					Author blog				

« Back to Posts

Editor’s Pick
AUGUST 23, 2011 6:09PM
Did Fracking Cause the Virginia Earthquake?

Rate: 
21
Flag

Email

Click "Submit Abuse" if you feel this post is inappropriate. Explain why below if you wish.

Cancel

Fracking Injects High Pressure Fluid Deep in Rock Bed
***
Earthquakes in the nation’s capitol are as rare as hen’s teeth. The epicenter of Tuesday’s quake was in Mineral, Virginia, which is located on three very quiet fault lines. The occurrence of yet another freak earthquake in an unusual location is leading many anti-fracking activists (including me – they have just started fracking in Stratford, which is 40 minutes from New Plymouth) to wonder whether “fracking” in nearby West   Virginia may be responsible.
Fracking, or hydraulic fracturing, is the process of initiating and subsequently propagating a fracture in a rock layer, employing the pressure of a fluid as the source of energy. The fracturing is done from a wellbore drilled into reservoir rock formations, in order to increase the extraction rates and ultimate recovery of oil and natural gas and coal seam gas.
How Fracking Causes Earthquakes
According to geologists, it isn’t the fracking itself that is linked to earthquakes, but the re-injection of waste salt water (as much as 3 million gallons per well) deep into rock beds.
Braxton County West Virginia (160 miles from Mineral) has experienced a rash of freak earthquakes (eight in 2010) since fracking operations started there several years ago. According to geologists fracking also caused an outbreak of thousands of minor earthquakes in Arkansas (as many as two dozen in a single day). It’s also linked to freak earthquakes in Texas, western New   York, Oklahoma, and Blackpool, England (which had never recorded an earthquake before).
Industry scientists deny the link to earthquakes, arguing that energy companies have been fracking for nearly sixty years. However it’s only a dozen years ago that “slick-water fracks” were introduced. This form of fracking uses huge amounts of water mixed with sand and dozens of toxic chemicals like benzene, all of which is injected under extreme pressure to shatter the underground rock reservoir and release gas trapped in the rock pores. Not only does the practice utilize millions of gallons of freshwater per frack (taken from lakes, rivers, or municipal water supplies), the toxic chemicals mixed in the water to make it “slick” endanger groundwater aquifers and threaten to pollute nearby water-wells.
Horizontal drilling and multi-stage fracking (which extend fractures across several kilometres) were introduced in 2004.
The Research Evidence
I think it’s really hard to deny there’s a connection when the frequency of Arkansas earthquakes dropped by two-thirds when the Arkansas Oil and Gas Commission banned fracking (see http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/04/21/fracking-shutdown-earthquakes-arkansas_n_851930.html). Note that they didn’t stop entirely, which suggests that fault disruption may persist even after fracking stops.
Braxton County West Virginia also experienced a marked reduction in their quakes after the West Virginia Oil and Gas Commission forced fracking companies to cut back on the pressure and rate of salt water injection into the bedrock (see http://www.hurherald.com/cgi-bin/db_scripts/articles?Action=user_view&db=hurheral_articles&id=43334).
According to a joint study by Southern Methodist University and University of Texas-Austin, earthquakes started in the Dallas/Fort Worth region after a fracking disposal well there began operating in 2008 and stopped when it was closed in 2009 (see http://www.watershedsentinel.ca/content/does-gas-fracking-cause-earthquakes).
Blackpool, England banned fracking immediately, without waiting to see if more earthquakes would occur.
The Need for Federal Action
 
Despite strong anti-fracking movements in New   York, Pennsylvania and West   Virginia – based on dozens of cases of contaminated well water, poisoned livestock, destruction of wildlife, and tap water that catches fire and explodes – fracking has proved extremely difficult to regulate on a state and local level. New York governor Andrew Cuomo seems intent to allow the New York fracking to lapse. And a West Virginia judge has recently overturned Morgantown’s ban on fracking, on the basis that it violated the constitutional rights of Northeast Natural energy company.
Hopefully today’s events have caused some chickens to come home to roost for federal lawmakers. They need to send a clear message to Obama and the EPA to stop “studying” the issue – that he needs to show some testicularity in standing up to the energy companies that are financing his 2012 campaign.
Meanwhile there is a legal precedent of an Arkansas man suing a fracking company for earthquake damage to his home. For people with earthquake damage from today’s quake, there’s a very nice lawyer at http://www.fracking-lawsuit.com/ who would be delighted to give you a free consultation.

Share and Enjoy:

	

Your tags:

TIP:

		
					Enter the amount, and click "Tip" to submit!
				

Share:

Email

		Recipient's email address: 
		 Personal message (optional):

     Your email address: 

Cancel

   

Comments

	  Post a comment	

          Type your comment below:
          

Cancel

I have got to share this post with the NY Greens!  anti-fracking a huge issue for them!  Thanks, Stuart.  Holy Cow!  [r] libby

libbyliberalnyc
August 23, 2011 08:14 PM

Here in New Zealand, we worry about earthquakes a lot. There are a lot of people and businesses in Christchurch that can no longer get insurance because the Chch earthquakes practically wiped the insurance companies out.

Dr Stuart Jeanne Bramhall
August 23, 2011 08:36 PM

Very interesting. I had not heard of the connection. A friend of mine-who is anti fracking and in the energy business -just mentioned that DC has had some historically bad earthquakes...I will pass this on to her.

snarkychaser
August 23, 2011 09:11 PM

Thank you for the information as always, Dr. Excellent post. R

Thoth
August 24, 2011 01:09 AM

Congrats on the EP!

Rw005g
August 24, 2011 08:38 AM

Concise, and very informative explanation of fracking for the lay reader.  Question.  How hard is it to immigrate from the US to New Zealand?

Cognitive Dissonance
August 24, 2011 01:09 PM

Even if this isn't a contributing cause, which I have no reason to doubt, there is plenty of other evidence that fracking causes many other problems. the fact that the corporations almost always get their way even when there is an enormous amount of evidence indicating that it costs the public an enormous amount is  a clear indication of how corrupt this system is and should indicate that even though the people who accept campaign contributions don't define them as bribes they clearly serve the same purpose. Until this is reformed there can be no real democracy in the USA instead if is corporatism or what ever you want to call it.

zacherydtaylor
August 24, 2011 01:56 PM

Thanks, Stuart. I grew up in Elmira, NY, which is having its rounds of fracking discussions with Slumberger Co. The general consensus seems to be "oh, boy, jobs" -- but six months ago there were explosions and two deaths in northern PA at a fracking site that may make them think twice. Rated.

BellemeadeBooks
August 24, 2011 02:03 PM

Will it ever matter how much evidence is given to show the damage done by energy companies?  No.  Because people still keep using energy produced by the same methods instead of pushing for green energy.  I guess we deserve it then because we elect the politicians.

Razzle Dazzle
August 24, 2011 02:31 PM

One more reason to ban this process entirely.  As if polluting our groundwater into Superfund Cleanup Site status weren't bad enough with our taps burning in contact with an ignition source (can you say IN-Sane?) they now just want to take some more shortcuts, use freshwater (sure, go ahead, we don't need no drinking water) and despoil the land under the ground too.If an alien species ever does stop by, their first questions will probably be, "How can you allow this to go on?"  I'd have to honestly tell them, "I don't understand it myself.  Can you give me a ride to the nearest planet with intelligent life on it?"-r-

dunniteowl
August 24, 2011 02:54 PM

Cognitive, people need to have occupations in a critical skills shortage area (there are scores of them) to immigrate to New Zealand. If you're serious about it, check out the New Zealand Immigration website.

Dr Stuart Jeanne Bramhall
August 24, 2011 04:53 PM

Stuart:This is a well thought out post.I might interject that there is another cause of earthquakes which needs to be looked at also.Global warming.With billions of tons of ice on land melting and running into the sea an enormous amount of weight is shifted off of parts of tectonic plates. Those shifts would allow those plates to rise and cause plate movement throughout the globe, wouldn't they?Until you mention fracking I thought that the cause of the rash of earth quakes had only to do with ice melt plate release and movement. I would add your ideas to the mix.

Pierre Angiel
August 24, 2011 05:19 PM

I buy.  It seems unbelievable to me that we can keep doing this stuff, raping and pillaging and plundering good ol' Mother Earth, and there will not be serious fucking consequences.  Look at what we are down to--digging in our own back yards for an explosive gas to run our resources-depleting shit.  It's a garbage heap of a society.rate

Dr William Lee
August 24, 2011 05:39 PM

If the capitalist was to initiate crustal displacement, as defined by Charles Hapgood, with his incessant “fracking” for oil, which is a commodity of dubious value anyway considering the bottom of the ocean is paved with  frozen methane, it would be a fitting end for a human race that allows the capitalist to go on unimpeded.

Jack Heart
August 24, 2011 05:45 PM

move along there, along the ramp and into the clamp. this won't hurt! not for long...if america had citizen initiative, it wouldn't have fracking. but you don't, so you do. serves you right?whom the gods wish to destroy, they first make stupid.

al loomis
August 24, 2011 05:52 PM

I felt those earthquakes here in DFW. As a species we're not that smart.

Harry's Ghost
August 24, 2011 06:18 PM

I lived in Colorado years ago when fracking was going on and I remember the earthquakes. They stopped the fracking and the earthquakes stopped.

sophieh
August 24, 2011 07:13 PM

Thanks for the info and insights. Unbelievable (almost) that a judge said banning fracking violated companies' rights! WOW.

Melanie Jae Martin
August 24, 2011 07:30 PM

Thanks for the info and insights! Unbelievable (almost) that a judge said banning fracking violated companies' rights. Somehow companies' rights always seem to come first. Great explanation of the issue.

Melanie Jae Martin
August 24, 2011 07:32 PM

Tuning in a little late to your blog, "Dr. Stuart". [What name do you prefer being called by?].  Immensely appreciate your sharing your studies with us.  I'd been trying to find information via Google when I could have found it a good 24 hours ago from you! Godspeed to Christ Church (for which I have fond associations) from someone who moved from the Los Angeles major earthquake fault line to the Seattle one [after leaving next door to Elmira ;-)].  Much much appreciation for extending this important discussion.  THANK YOU! R

podunkmarte
August 24, 2011 07:39 PM

The science will tell us, which this blog does not.  More likely the erosion of the glaciers 20,000 years ago resulted in the geological happenstance that caused the 'quake. 'Facking' is to geology what an ice cube is to global warming.  Nice try.

TheBadScot
August 24, 2011 11:05 PM

(a) earthquakes do happen on their own(b) seems to be plenty evidence that fracking causes small local quakes(c) we gotta do something besides find, extract and burn all the possible fossil fuel there is(d) citizen initiatives are as likely to be FOR fracking and whatever-it-takes as for more sane policies...(e) having messed with the atmosphere and oceans, we're now messing with the deep earth!  My god, when will we stop?  Oh wait, I know the answer...

Myriad
August 25, 2011 07:27 AM

Great post.  Sadly, nothing will be done because the energy companies own our poiticians.  Only when benzene comes through the faucet at the white house will anything change. R

Rodney Roe
August 25, 2011 08:45 AM

I will share this today.A well man/pump comes.The well dried up yesterday.The mountain well was faithful.The aquifers shifted? I hope not.I though a water pumped burned.Lightening has done that before.It never happened to me. I hear:Neighbors have similar Troubles.A well digger told me years ago?A few strong backs may dig wells.Well diggers may dig twelve feet.Since suburbia the well digger digs.But now he uses a carbide tip auger.An expensive well digger will visit.These day a dig bit digs 7,000 ft.And, there still may be no water.I am gonna share this great post.I saw your post on the Top Read.Then it vanished, and Thank You.`Who pledges allegiance to the CEO'sAnd Blood Thirsty Plutocrat BankersAnd We Know they are Ruins CreepsGreedy and Hubris Dead In a`SoulsOne nation, filthy rich, and GlobalsFat Cat Devil Tattoo Same Old Fools`I get hacked and I cuss creeps too.

Art James
August 25, 2011 10:10 AM

That is the first thing I thought of when I heard about the earthquake.If you are wondering about comments and ratings, it's working very poorly today. Thank you for writing this.

Janice Wood
August 25, 2011 12:53 PM

No. The earthquake epicenter was located in a seismically active part of Virginia known as the Central Virginia Seismic Zone. Although earthquakes of magnitude >5 are relatively rare in eastern North America, they do occur. The earthquake of August 23rd occurred exactly in an area where it was to be expected. It is doubtful that fracking injection would contribute enough fluid and energy needed to create the seismic activity necessary to generate a 5.8-5.9 magnitude earthquake that would be felt along a significant portion of North America.Please check the USGS website and examine the focal mechanism solution, which indicates reverse-oblique slipping along the nearby Spotsylvania Fault. Movement such as this is to be expected as a result of eastern North America existing in a compressional stress regime, possibly caused by subsidence of the adjacent Atlantic seafloor.The conjecture that the recent quake is the result of isostatic uplift caused by global warming can also be discounted in that the earthquake epicenter occurred well outside of (far south of) areas of observed post-glacial rebound.Global warming and hydrocarbon fracking pose serious threats to the environment and to life on Earth. The type of alarmism that some elements of the environmental movement use to further their own paranoid agendas is both unprofessional and deplorable, and serves no good to anyone. Please educate yourself more thoroughly on these issues, and seek the help of professionals who are knowledgeable in the field. I hope my comments have been of such help.Cheers.

S. Ultramafic
August 25, 2011 08:32 PM

Thanks for your comment, S. All I know is that Scott M. Ausbrooks, a RPG geologist from the Arkansas Geological Survey, believes there may be a connection with fracking and has gone to Virginia to investigate further. So this seems to be an area in which geologists are divided.If you are prepared to have an open mind about this, I suggest you check out the following links:http://planetsave.com/2011/02/18/arkansas-earthquakes-related-to-hydraulic-fracking/http://www.thesuntimes.com/news/x1704352837/Injection-wells-bannedhttp://www.arkansasonline.com/news/2011/jul/31/permanent-disposal-well-moratorium-issued-20110731/?news-arkansashttp://ozarksfirst.com/fulltext?nxd_id=510617

Dr Stuart Jeanne Bramhall
August 25, 2011 08:47 PM

What the Frack!R for relative

Kate O'hehir
August 25, 2011 09:12 PM

I wondered about what was said here.  I Google it looking for the burning water. I found two things that make me doubt this piece.First I found that methane gas is common in wells. It may not have come from fracking. Considering wells are shallow and tracking is done at 6000 feet plus, I find it hard to believe that a naturaling occurring gas made it through the rock.Second, earlier this year Lisa Jackson, an EPA administrator, told congress there have been no "provable cases where tracking process itself has affected water."So does finding fault in part of the post make it all wrong? No. However I'm not going to stop what this country has and needs for something that is what one side wants it to be.

Catnlion
August 26, 2011 02:54 AM

Sorry, my tablet wants to change words to what it thinks is right.

Catnlion
August 26, 2011 02:57 AM

The nearest use of fracking is located 90 miles to the west of the epicenter, in West Virginia.  Even at a relatively high transport velocity of 1 ft/day- and assuming that groundwater flows in a straight line eastward from the fracking operation (which it doesn't) and that the intervening rock strata are perfectly homogenous (which they aren't)- it would take 475,200 days (~1,302 yrs) for injected fracking fluid to reach the known epicenter. This does not take into account the fact that time is needed for the fracking fluid to collect along the fault zone so as to lubricate the fault and allow for enhanced fault movement.  One must also explain the lack of smaller scale earthquakes that might be expected to have occurred west of the epicenter if fracking really is to blame. The real situation is far more complex than the simplification that I provided. As I stated in my previous comment, the earthquake occurred in a known seismic zone. In short, there is absolutely NO WAY that known fracking operations caused the recent Mineral, VA earthquake. While fracking operations are believed to cause small scale localized seismic disturbances, the recent Mineral, VA earthquake is an example of the infrequent large quakes that occur normally in eastern North America (e.g. Giles Co., VA, 1897; NY-Ontario, 1944, etc.). Also consider that the east coast appears to be overdue for a truly large quake such as the Charleston, SC quake of 1886 (mag. 7.3). Let us not forget the Cape Ann, MA quake of 1755 (mag. 5.9) which caused significant damage to the city of Boston. (Any ideas as to what caused those?)  There are plenty of reasons to want hydrocarbon fracking banned, but the recent earthquake of August 23 is NOT one of them. Let's keep an open mind.BTW, if it sounds as if I know what I'm talking about it's because I've worked as a hydrogeologist and environmental consultant since 1991, and I'm licensed in both NC and SC.

S. Ultramafic
August 26, 2011 10:23 AM

 

Dr Stuart Jeanne Bramhall's Favorites 

  Derrick Fartman

  John Galt

  Thoth

  vzn

  Redmond Barry

  guerrilla jester

view all

Updates 

"Labor Day Officially Moved to China"

            	posted by: markinjapan

Ben Bernake And Tim Geithner On How to Rob The Middle Class

            	posted by: Derrick Fartman

Where Do You Belong....?

            	posted by: skypixie0

My Backup Plan! ---- achieving dual citizenship

            	posted by: Kenny1948

A Labor Day Post – The Process Of Relearning

            	posted by: TimingLogic

"I've Got Blisters on Me Fingers"

            	posted by: scanner

Another Party

            	posted by: Jeanette DeMain

Reminding Bill

            	posted by: Christine Bollerud

Open Salon 
About 
Contact 
Help 
Terms 
Privacy 
Advertising

 Salon.com 
© 2011 Salon Media Group, Inc.

  

      

