Beijing. More than 150 people were killed and 5,700 injured when a strong earthquake hit a mountainous part of southwestern China on Saturday, destroying thousands of homes and triggering landslides,  AFP reported.

The shallow earthquake struck Sichuan province on the edge of the Tibetan Plateau just after 8:00 am, prompting a major rescue operation in the same area where 87,000 people were reported dead or missing in a massive quake in 2008.

Nearly 13 hours after the quake hit Lushan county in the city of Ya'an, the death toll stood at 157, the official Xinhua news agency reported, citing the Ministry of Civil Affairs which said more than 5,700 had been injured.

Local seismologists registered the quake at magnitude 7.0 while the US Geological Survey gave it as 6.6. More than 260 aftershocks followed, the People's Daily said on its website.

Beijing.  The number of the victims in the earthquake that hit southwestern Chinese province of Sichuan raised to 124 people, local authorities announced, cited by  RIA Novosti. 

The strong earthquake with magnitude 7 on the Richter scale was registered on Saturday morning in Sichuan province. The epicenter was in the area of Lushal some 150 kilometers far from the administrative centre of the province. 

Chengdu. The death toll from an earthquake on Saturday in China's southwestern Sichuan province has reached 100 with more than 2,000 others injured, government officials said, AFP reported.

Moscow. Russian President Vladimir Putin offered China assistance on Saturday in helping recover from a quake that struck the southwest Sichuan province and killed at least 71 people, the Kremlin said, AFP reported.

Beijing. The death toll from a 6.6-magnitude quake that struck southwest China's Sichuan province on Saturday has risen to 72, with 600 injured, according to Chinese state broadcaster CCTV, as cited by AFP.

The shallow earthquake struck just after 8:00 am (0000 GMT) at a depth of 12 kilometres (seven miles), destroying buildings and setting off landslides, with rescue teams dispatched to the area.

 Beijing.  The strong earthquake that hit southwest China's Sichuan province Saturday killed nearly 30 people and left at least 400 injured, state news agency Xinhua said, citing a local official, AFP reports.

The toll was announced by Xu Mengjia, secretary of the Communist Party's Ya'an municipal committee, the city closest to the epicentre of the 6.6-magnitude quake, which destroyed buildings and set off landslides.

Beijing. More than 150 people were killed and 5,700 injured when a strong earthquake hit a mountainous part of southwestern China on Saturday, destroying thousands of homes and triggering landslides,  AFP reported.

Beijing.  The number of the victims in the earthquake that hit southwestern Chinese province of Sichuan raised to 124 people, local authorities announced, cited by  RIA Novosti. 

