Earthquake in China leaves 156 dead, 5,500 injuredUSA TodayXNewsSportsLifeMoneyTechTravelOpinionWeatherIconHumidityPrecip.WindsOpen settingsSettingsEnter City, State or ZipCancelSetClose settingsFull ForecastMediaThe Big PageSign in with FacebookSign in with GoogleSign In FAQYou are logged in as Log outLog outSign In FAQSearchCloseJoin the Nation's ConversationTo find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQsShare This Story!Let friends in your social network know what you are reading aboutShareTwitterGoogle+LinkedIn

                                A powerful earthquake struck the steep hills of China's southwestern Sichuan province on Saturday, leaving at least 156 people dead and more than 5,500 injured, nearly five years after a devastating quake wreaked widespread damage across the region.

                            Post to FacebookPosted!A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. Tweeted!A tweet has been posted to your Twitter account. Sent!A link has been sent to your friend's email address. Earthquake in China leaves 156 dead, 5,500 injuredTelevision footage from the epicentre of a strong earthquake in China shows extensive damage as medical teams rush to help the many injured.10:31 a.m. EDT April 20, 2013 The quake toppled buildings, triggered landslides and disrupted phone and power connections.Residents rest outside damaged houses in Longmen township, an area very close to the epicenter of a shallow earthquake at magnitude 7.0 that hit the city of Ya'an, southwest China's Sichuan province on Saturday.(Photo: AFP/Getty Images)Story HighlightsU.S. Geological Survey measured the quake at 6.6 magnitudeQuake's shallow depth, less than 8 miles, likely magnified the impactVillage of Longmen hit particularly hard, with nearly all buildings there destroyedBEIJING (AP) — A powerful earthquake struck the steep hills of China's southwestern Sichuan province on Saturday, leaving at least 156 people dead and more than 5,500 injured, nearly five years after a devastating quake wreaked widespread damage across the region.Saturday's quake, while not as destructive as the one in 2008, toppled buildings, triggered landslides and disrupted phone and power connections in mountainous Lushan county. The village of Longmen was hit particularly hard, with authorities saying nearly all the buildings there had been destroyed in a frightening minute-long shaking by the quake."It was such a big quake that everyone was scared," said a woman who answered the phone at a kindergarten hours later and declined to give her name. "We all fled for our lives."Rescuers turned the square outside the Lushan County Hospital into a triage center, where medical personnel bandaged bleeding victims, according to footage on China Central Television. Rescuers dynamited boulders that had fallen across roads to reach Longmen and other damaged areas lying farther up the mountain valleys, state media reported.CCTV reported that at least 156 people had died. The government of Ya'an city, which administers Lushan, said in a statement that more than 2,600 people were injured, 330 of them severely.

                                Rescuers save an injured woman after a 6.6 earthquake hit Baosheng Township in Lushan County, Ya'an City, in China's Sichuan Province on Saturday, April 20, 2013. The powerful earthquake struck the steep hills of Sichuan province Saturday, nearly five years after a devastating quake wreaked widespread damage across the region. 

                                Residents sit next to the ruins of houses destroyed by an earthquake in Longmen Township, Lushan County, Ya'an City in China's Sichuan Province. 

                                Rescuers gather to rescue a child to safety from her collapsed home after an earthquake hit Ya'an City in Lushan county, in China's Sichuan province. More than 100 people were killed and 3,000 injured when a strong earthquake shook southwest China, wrecking homes and triggering landslides in an area devastated by a major tremor in 2008. 

                                An aerial photo shows destroyed houses after a powerful earthquake hit Taiping town of Lushan County in Ya'an City, in China's Sichuan Province. The powerful earthquake jolted Sichuan province Saturday near where a devastating quake struck five years ago. 

                                A village woman reacts after her house was damaged by an earthquake in Lushan county, Ya'an, southwest China's Sichuan province. The powerful earthquake struck the steep hills of China's southwestern Sichuan province Saturday. 

                                A clock hanging from a damaged building shows the time it stopped at about 7:50 in Longmen township, an area very close to the epicenter of a shallow earthquake that hit the city of Ya'an, southwest China's Sichuan province. 

                                Rescuers sit on ruins of a house in Longmen township, an area very close to the epicenter of a shallow earthquake  that hit the city of Ya'an, southwest China's Sichuan province. 

                                A rescuer carries a child to safety after she was pulled out of her collapsed home after an earthquake hit Ya'an City in Lushan county, southwest China's Sichuan province. More than 100 people were killed and 3,000 injured when a strong earthquake shook southwest China on April 20, wrecking homes and triggering landslides in an area devastated by a major tremor in 2008. 

                                Rubble from a collapsed building blocks pavement as people and cars make their way along a street following a strong earthquake hit Southwest China's Sichuan Province in Ya'an, Sichuan Province of China. The devastating earthquake hit the region in the morning claiming over 100 lives and injuring thousands. 

                                A man carries an injured woman to a temporary treatment station following an earthquake in Lushan county in Ya'an in southwest China's Sichuan province. The powerful earthquake shook Chinaís Sichuan province Saturday morning, nearly five years after a devastating quake jolted the province. 

                                Chinese Primer Li Keqiang (C) arrives in Longmen township, an area very close to the epicenter of a shallow earthquake that hit the city of Ya'an, southwest China's Sichuan province. 

                                A rescuer stands by a damaged building in Longmen township, an area close to the epicenter of an earthquake that hit the city of Ya'an, southwest China's Sichuan province. 

                                Residents sit by their damaged houses in Longmen township, near the epicenter of an earthquake that hit the city of Ya'an, southwest China's Sichuan province. 

                                A man walks across rubble caused by an earthquake which hit China's Sichuan Province in Ya'an, Sichuan Province of China. 

                                Damaged houses are seen by a roadside in Longmen township, an area close to the epicenter of an earthquake that hit the city of Ya'an, southwest China's Sichuan province. 

                                A man sits in front of the houses destroyed by an earthquake which hit Lushan county in Ya'an in southwest China's Sichuan province. 

                                 AP Related storyFullscreenLike this topic? You may also like these photo galleries:ReplayAutoplayShow ThumbnailsShow CaptionsFullscreenLast SlideNext SlideThe quake — measured by the China Earthquake Administration at magnitude-7.0 and by the U.S. Geological Survey at 6.6 — struck the steep hills of Lushan county shortly after 8 a.m., when many people were at home, sleeping or having breakfast. People in their underwear and wrapped in blankets ran into the streets of Ya'an and even the provincial capital of Chengdu, 115 kilometers (70 miles) east of Lushan, according to photos, video and accounts posted online.The quake's shallow depth, less than 13 kilometers (8 miles), likely magnified the impact.Chengdu's airport shut down for about an hour before reopening, though many flights were canceled or delayed, and its railway station halted dozens of scheduled train rides Saturday, state media said.Lushan reported the most deaths, 76, but there was concern that casualties in neighboring Baoxing county might have been under-reported because of inaccessibility after roads were blocked and power and phone services cut off.As the region went into the first night after the quake, rain started to fall, slowing rescue work. Forecasts called for more rain in the next several days, and the China Meteorological Administration warned of possible landslides and other geological disasters.Tens of thousands of people moved into tents or cars, unable to return home or too afraid to go back as aftershocks continued to jolt the region.Lushan, where the quake struck, lies where the fertile Sichuan plain meets foothills that eventually rise to the Tibetan plateau and sits atop the Longmenshan fault. It was along that fault line that a devastating magnitude-7.9 quake struck on May 12, 2008, leaving more than 90,000 people dead or missing and presumed dead in one of the worst natural disasters to strike China in recent decades."It was just like May 12," Liu Xi, a writer in Ya'an city, who was jolted awake by Saturday's quake, said via a private message on his account on Sina Corporation's Twitter-like Weibo service. "All the home decorations fell at once, and the old house cracked."The official Xinhua News Agency said the well-known Bifengxia panda preserve, which is near Lushan, was not affected by the quake. Dozens of pandas were moved to Bifengxia from another preserve, Wolong, after its habitat was wrecked by the 2008 quake.An aerial photo shows destroyed houses after a powerful earthquake hit Taiping town of Lushan County in Ya'an City, in China's Sichuan Province. The powerful earthquake jolted Sichuan province Saturday near where a devastating quake struck five years ago.(Photo: Liu Yinghua, AP)As in most natural disasters, the government mobilized thousands of soldiers and others — 7,000 people by Saturday afternoon — sending excavators and other heavy machinery as well as tents, blankets and other emergency supplies. Two soldiers died after the vehicle that they and more than a dozen others were in slipped off the road and rolled down a cliff, state media reported.Premier Li Keqiang flew to Ya'an to direct rescue efforts, and he and President Xi Jinping ordered officials and rescuers to make saving people the top priority, Xinhua said.The Chinese Red Cross said it had deployed relief teams with supplies of food, water, medicine and rescue equipment to the disaster areas.With roads blocked for several hours after the quake, the military surveyed the disaster area by air. Aerial photos released by the military and shown on state television showed individual houses in ruins in Lushan and outlying villages flattened into rubble. The roofs of some taller buildings appeared to have slipped off, exposing the floors beneath them.A person whose posts to the micro-blogging account "Qingyi Riverside" on Weibo carried a locator geotag for Lushan said many buildings collapsed and that people could spot helicopters hovering above.The earthquake administration said there had been at least 627 aftershocks, including two of magnitude-5.0 or higher."It's too dangerous," said a person with the Weibo account Chengduxinglin and with a Lushan geotag. "Even the aftershocks are scary."While rescuers and state media rushed to the disaster scene, China's active social media users filled the information gap. They posted photos of people fleeing to streets for safety and of buildings flattened by the quake. They shared information on the availability of phone services, apparently through data services.A village woman reacts after her house was damaged by an earthquake in Lushan county, Ya'an, southwest China's Sichuan province. The powerful earthquake struck the steep hills of China's southwestern Sichuan province Saturday.(Photo: AP)Copyright 2012 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

