Over 100 dead, thousands injured in China quake; massive rescue underway - Xinhua | English.news.cn

CHENGDU, April 20 (Xinhua) -- More than 100 people were killed and thousands injured after a strong quake struck southwest China's Sichuan Province Saturday morning, triggering massive rescue efforts.

The 7.0-magnitude earthquake hit Lushan county of Ya'an City in the province at 8:02 a.m. Saturday Beijing Time. At least 113 people were killed, according to the China Earthquake Administration on Saturday afternoon.

The epicenter of the quake, with a depth of 13 km, was monitored at 30.3 degrees north latitude and 103.0 degrees east longitude. It is one of the most destructive earthqukes in China in recent years. A 8.0-magnitude quake in Wenchuan county in Sichuan Province left 87,000 dead or missing in May 12, 2008.

Chinese President Xi Jinping on Saturday ordered troops in the quake-hit zone to make "every possible effort" to rescue.

The troops must be quickly dispatched to the front line of the quake-relief work to rescue residents and treat the injured in every possible way, Xi said.

Premier Li Keqiang arrived at the epicenter Saturday afternoon. He convened emergency meetings during his flight to direct quake-relief work.

"The current most urgent issue is grasping the first 24 hours after the quake's occurrence, the golden time for saving lives, to take scientific rescue measures and save peoples' lives," Li said.

Three townships of Taiping, Baosheng and Dachuan in Lushan county are out of the contact. The water and electricity supply in the county has been cut off due to the quake. Most of the buildings in the old urban area of Lushan county and Longmen township collapsed in the quake, according to the local government's statement.

Huang Qiqun was working at the first floor of a bamboo weaving factory in Longmen township when the earthquake destroyed the building.

A 5.3-magnitude earthquake jolted the border areas between the counties of Lushan and Tianquan at about 11:34 a.m., the strongest aftershock after the 7.0-magnitude quake, according to the provincial seismological bureau.

The State Grid Corporation of China said the major lines in the province are operating smoothly, but those in the quake-hit area are severely damaged.

As many as 279 telecommunication base stations have collapsed due to the quake.

Sichuan has rich oil and gas resources, with many pipelines and refineries. Sinopec, Asia's largest refiner, said no damage had been reported at its production facilities in the quake-hit regions.

The Ya'an quake has resulted in serious casualties and economic losses, but it is not expected to be as disastrous as the 8.0-magnitude Wenchuan quake, said Pan Huaiwen, director of the China Earthquake Networks Center (CENC).

Jiang Haikun, an official with the CENC's forecasting department, said the Ya'an quake resembles that of the Wenchuan disaster, as both earthquakes were formed in a similar way, occurring on the Longmen mountain fault zone.

Earthquakes on this 500-km belt are not frequent, but very powerful. Twelve quakes above 5.0-magnitude have occurred since 1900, including Wenchuan as the most powerful one, Jiang said.

The Ya'an quake was not an aftershock of the Wenchuan earthquake, he said.

A total of 12 earthquakes at 5.0-magnitude or above have occurred in the area within 100 kilometers of its epicenter since 1900, including the devastating Wenchuan quake in 2008. 

7.0 earthquake hits Sichuan Province, at least 41 killed

7.0-magnitude earthquake jolts Sichuan

7.0-magnitude earthquake hits SW China's Sichuan 

