   Organizations, Corporations Donate Money for Quake Relief - CRIENGLISH.com  CRIENGLISH.com - ‎46 minutes ago‎   The Communist Youth League Central Committee has allocated one million yuan (160,256 U.S dollars) from its membership fund to support relief efforts after a 7.0-magnitude earthquake jolted southwest China's Sichuan Province Saturday morning.    

  Deadly Earthquake Hits China - Radio Free Europe / Radio Liberty  RadioFreeEurope/RadioLiberty - ‎4 hours ago‎   Chinese state media say at least 124 people have been killed and thousands more injured in a powerful earthquake in southwestern Sichuan province. The 6.6-magnitude quake struck the rural region early on April 20, wrecking buildings, destroying roads, ...    

  Death toll rises to 157 in SW China quake  People's Daily Online - ‎21 minutes ago‎   BEIJING, April 20 (Xinhua) -- A total of 157 people had been killed and more than 5,700 injured in the 7.0-magnitude earthquake in southwest China's Sichuan Province as of 9:00 p.m Saturday, according to the Ministry of Civil Affairs. A total of 33 counties in ...    

  Highway blocked for disaster relief in Sichuan  Global Times - ‎35 minutes ago‎   A 7.0-magnitude earthquake hit Lushan county of Ya'an city in Southwest China's Sichuan Province at 8:02 am Saturday, leaving 152 people dead, according to the Xinhua News Agency at 9:15 pm. The earthquake has killed 11 people in Baoxing county, ...    

  International community expresses condolences over China earthquake  People's Daily Online - ‎45 minutes ago‎   BEIJING, April 20 (Xinhua) -- Some countries Saturday conveyed condolences to China over a 7.0-magnitude earthquake in southwest China's Sichuan Province, which has killed at least 124 people. In a message sent to Chinese President Xi Jinping, ...    

   Official: China quake kills 32, injures 600 - Newsday  Newsday - ‎11 hours ago‎   BEIJING - (AP) -- A Communist Party official says that earthquake that hit China's Sichuan provinces left at least 32 people dead and injured more than 600. Xu Mengjia, party secretary of Ya'an city, which administers the area where the quake hit, told China ...    

  Quake kills 156, injures thousands in south-west China  The Nation - ‎42 minutes ago‎   Beijing - At least 156 people were killed and more than 5,000 injured when a magnitude-6.6 earthquake struck Saturday in south-wes tChina, destroying buildings and triggering landslides, state media reported. Ten military aircraft carrying some 7,500 ...    

  Several Dead In China Earthquake - RTTNews  RTT News - ‎11 hours ago‎   Several people have died when a 7.0-magnitude earthquake struck southwest China's Sichuan Province on Saturday. China's state news agency Xin Hua says more than 100 casualties have been reported by the government of Lushan county. The quake ...    

   China's PM: First 24 hours most important to save lives  ITV News - ‎34 minutes ago‎   China's premier Li Keqiang arrives en route to earthquake disaster zone in the southwestern province of Sichuan. Credit: Reuters. China's premier Li Keqiang has said all efforts must be put into rescuing victims to limit the death toll, after an earthquake struck ...    

  Death Toll in China Quake Mounts to Dozens - Media  RIA Novosti - ‎6 hours ago‎   BEIJING, April 20 (RIA Novosti) – Russia offered on Saturday to help China in dealing with the aftermath of the powerful earthquake that reportedly killed at least 70 and injured hundreds of people. President Vladimir Putin sent his condolences to Chinese ...    

  Earthquake in China kills more than 100, leaves thousands injured  660 News - ‎55 minutes ago‎   A large earthquake in southwest China has left at least 150 people dead, with at least 2,000 more injured. The 6.6-magnitude earthquake rocked China's Sichuan Province. This area is no stranger to deadly earthquakes, after a powerful 7.9-magnitude quake ...    

  Chinese troops ordered to help hundreds hurt in Sichuan quake  UPI.com - ‎3 hours ago‎   BEIJING, April 20 (UPI) -- Chinese soldiers have been ordered to make every possible effort to help residents of southwest China hit by a 6.6-magnitude earthquake early Saturday morning. The order, from President Xi Jinping, came after a temblor killed ...    

   China quake kills scores and injurers thousands  euronews - ‎6 hours ago‎   The quake was felt in neighbouring provinces causing people to flee buildings in search of safety. The epicentre, in Lushan county near Ya'an city, had a depth of around 12 kilometers. Authorities say 6,000 troops are heading to the area to assist rescue ...    

   China in rescue effort after deadly quake - MWC News  MWC News - ‎1 hour ago‎   Government sends 6,000 troops to Sichuan region Officials have confirmed 102 people have died in a 6.6 magnitude earthquake that struck China's southwestern Sichuan province, Chinese state television reports. The shallow quake hit near the city of Ya'an, ...    

  6.6 magnitude earthquake hits China; 156 dead, 5500 injured so far  God Discussion (blog) - ‎1 hour ago‎   According to the US Geological Survey, a 6.6 magnitude earthquake struck the Sichuan province of China, and occurred as the result of east-west oriented reverse-type motion on a north-south striking fault. A preliminary source location suggest the event ...    

   China earthquake death toll hits 130, over 3000 injured  Press TV - ‎2 hours ago‎   Rescuers sit on ruins of a house in Longmen township in China's southwestern province of Sichuan on April 20, 2013. Sat Apr 20, 2013 12:19PM. LAST UPDATE. Share | Email | Print. Government officials say the powerful earthquake that struck China's ...    

  Official: China quake kills 32, injures 600  Pensacola News Journal - ‎9 hours ago‎   In this photo provided by China's official Xinhua News Agency, a giant rock blocks the road, about 20 kilometers (12.5 miles) from the county seat of Lushan in Ya'an city, southwest China's Sichuan Province, Saturday, April 20, 2013. A powerful earthquake ...    

   Aftermath of SW China Earthquake - CRIENGLISH.com  CRIENGLISH.com - ‎1 hour ago‎   Displaced residents rest next to ruins of houses after a 7.0-magnitude earthquake in Longmen Township, Lushan County, Ya'an City of southwest China's Sichuan Province, April 20, 2013. At least 102 people were killed in the earthquake in Sichuan, ...    

  Death toll rises to 132 in SW China quake, more than 5500 injured  gbtimes - ‎2 hours ago‎   One hundred and thirty two people have been killed in the 7.0-magnitude earthquake in southwest China's Sichuan Province that has also left more than 5,500 injured, according to China Earthquake Administration. The earthquake hit Lushan county of Ya'an ...    

   Deadly quake kills dozens in Sichuan province, China  euronews - ‎8 hours ago‎   At least 28 people have been killed after an earthquake struck Sichuan province in south west China. Up to 100 people may have been wounded by the magnitude 6.6 quake, which struck near Ya'an city at 8.02am local time (01.02 CET). A number of ...    

  Over 7500 soldiers deployed to quake-hit Sichuan  People's Daily Online - ‎2 hours ago‎   CHENGDU, April 20 (Xinhua) -- China has deployed more than 7,500 military and armed police soldiers and 10 aircraft to the area hit by the 7.0-magnitude earthquake Saturday morning in southwest China's Sichuan Province to help with rescue and relief ...    

   In Latest Earthquake, Chinese Heed Lessons From 2008 Earthquake  Neon Tommy - ‎8 hours ago‎   In the few hours since southwest China was rocked by an earthquake that has claimed dozens of lives, thousands of tips to stay safe have spread across the Internet in China. People who had experienced the an earthquake 10 times as large in the same ...    

   Sichaun Earthquake: Social Media Criticism Prompts Suspension Of Highway Tolls  Neon Tommy - ‎11 hours ago‎   A 7.0-magnitude earthquake jolted Yaan city of China's Sichuan province shortly after 8 a.m. Saturday in China. Government said rescue teams have been sent to the quake-hit areas. The death toll has continued to rise in the four hours since the quake, ...    

   CHINA QUAKE: Dozens Killed, Hundreds Wounded in China Quake  Pentagon Post - ‎8 hours ago‎   CHINA – A strong earthquake hit the western region of the Sichuan province in China at around 8 a.m. on Saturday, claiming the lives of at least 72 people, wounding hundreds of others, and leaving an undetermined number of people trapped, based on ...    

   China earthquake: more than 100 people killed  Channel 4 News - ‎3 hours ago‎   The 7.0 magnitude earthquake hit the Sichuan province at just after 8am local time (midnight GMT) near Ya'an city - home to around 1.5 million people. State television reported that at least 156 people had died, whilst 5,500 are said to be injured, as buildings ...    

  China Earthquake Kills Or Injures Thousands In Sichuan Province  Nature World News - ‎11 hours ago‎   The yellow star shows the epicenter of the earthquake, which is said to have killed or injured thousands. (Photo : U.S. Geological Survey ). A grim picture is unfolding in south central China after a shallow 6.6 magnitude earthquake has reportedly killed or ...    

   Hundreds feared dead after China earthquake  The Times (subscription) - ‎11 hours ago‎   Hundreds of people are feared dead or injured after a 6.6 magnitude earthquake struck near Ya'an city in China's southwestern province of Sichuan early this morning, close to where a devastating quake struck in 2008, killing almost 70,000. The earthquake ...    

  Deadly magnitude 6.6 quake strikes Sichuan region of China  NBCNews.com (blog) - ‎9 hours ago‎   A magnitude 6.6 earthquake rattled the Sichuan region in western China on Saturday and state media reported deaths and injuries. Follow @NBCNewsWorld. The quake struck at 8:02 a.m. local time and was centered north of the city of Ya'an. It occurred at a ...    

   What a pro - Chinese bride rushes from wedding to report on earthquake  JOE - ‎1 hour ago‎   A Chinese bride showed she is the consummate professional by going to work as soon as the devastating earthquake hit the Sichuan area. A powerful earthquake struck the steep hills of China's southwestern Sichuan province Saturday, leaving at least 124 ...    

   China Sichuan Earthquake 6.7 Magnitude: 113 Dead, 2008 Memories Come To ...  iTech Post - ‎2 hours ago‎   Rescue workers sit on the debris of destroyed houses after a strong 6.6 magnitude earthquake, at Longmen village, Lushan county, Ya'an, Sichuan province April 20, 2013. Credit:Reuters. A powerful earthquake, measuring nearly 6.7 on the Richter Scale, ...    

