China earthquake shears off mountainsides, kills 186 people - CNN.com

Military medical officers carry a patient to an ambulance at the hospital in Ya'an, China, on Monday, April 22, three days after a 7.0-magnitude earthquake hit China's southwest Sichuan Province. The death toll is rising as rescue works scramble to find survivors and bodies.

Rescuers dig through rubble in quake-hit Qingren township in southwest China's Sichuan Province on Saturday, April 20.

This photo taken on a helicopter shows the quake-destroyed houses in Taiping Town in Ya'an City on Saturday.

Rescuers sit on ruins of a house in Longmen, an area close to the epicenter of the earthquake.

Lushan, China (CNN) -- A strong earthquake that struck the southwestern Chinese province of Sichuan this weekend has killed 186 people, sent nearly 8,200 to hospitals and created a dire dearth of drinking water, Chinese state-run Xinhua reported Sunday. Earlier reports had said as many as 11,200 people were injured.

The Sichuan Red Cross estimated that drinking water in Ya'an City will run out within three days despite rescue workers' efforts to deliver supplies to quake-hit area. In more remote areas, where the shifting earth muddied river waters, people anxiously awaited evacuation, Xinhua said.

Huge mountain chunks near the quake's epicenter in Lushan County have sheared off and fallen into valleys. Boulders have landed on roads, making emergency work difficult. Buildings were flattened in the county, and others had severe structural damage.

Xu Mengjia, the Communist Party chief of Ya'an, the city that administers the area where the quake struck, told state broadcaster CCTV that because of landslides and disruption to communications, determining the total number of casualties will take some time.

Li spent Saturday in Lushan County, leading the response near the quake's epicenter, then visited hospital patients Sunday, Xinhua reported.

The quake struck just after 8 a.m. local time Saturday, about 115 kilometers (71 miles) from the provincial capital, Chengdu, at a depth of around 12 kilometers, according to the U.S. Geological Survey. There was conflicting information about the earthquake's strength, with the USGS putting the magnitude at 6.6 and the China Earthquake Networks Center gauging it at 7.0.

The event stirred memories of the devastating earthquake that hit Sichuan in 2008, killing more than 87,000 people.

First responders to Saturday's quake reported that the damage didn't appear to be as severe as what was seen after the 2008 disaster, according to CCTV.

"I thought it was my roommates shaking the bed," he said. "But the shock became stronger soon, and it came to me that an earthquake happened."

Residents of Chongqing, a sprawling metropolis more than 300 kilometers (about 190 miles) from Ya'an, said the quake also shook buildings there.

Watch CCTV video from the earthquake that struck the southwestern Chinese province of Sichuan the past weekend.

A reporter in the middle of getting ready for her wedding left the make-up chair to cover the Sichuan quake.

