Amid wreckage of China quake, the desperate search for survivors - CNN.com

Military medical officers carry a patient to an ambulance at the hospital in Ya'an, China, on Monday, April 22, three days after a 7.0-magnitude earthquake hit China's southwest Sichuan Province. The death toll is rising as rescue works scramble to find survivors and bodies.

Rescuers dig through rubble in quake-hit Qingren township in southwest China's Sichuan Province on Saturday, April 20.

This photo taken on a helicopter shows the quake-destroyed houses in Taiping Town in Ya'an City on Saturday.

Rescuers sit on ruins of a house in Longmen, an area close to the epicenter of the earthquake.

Lushan, China (CNN) -- Families badly in need of food and water are living in makeshift shelters near the shattered remains of their houses in this area of the southwestern Chinese province of Sichuan where a strong earthquake struck over the weekend, killing at least 188 people.

Some of those who evaded the tumbling debris when the quake hit on Saturday are now taking refuge under lean-to tents; others have no shelter at all. In many cases, it's too dangerous to go back inside the precarious ruins of their heavily damaged houses to look for food and belongings.

Chinese authorities have marshaled a big response to the disaster, trying to meet the basic needs of the tens of thousands of people left homeless in Sichuan, which five years ago suffered a devastating earthquake that killed more than 87,000 people.

Xinhua reported Sunday that some of the water supply in Lushan County, the district where the quake's epicenter was located, had been restored, providing about 100,000 residents with water for emergency use.

More than 2,000 aftershocks -- some of them were stronger than magnitude 5.0 -- have rattled the area around the epicenter of the original quake, which ripped huge chunks of rock out of the sides of mountains, state-run media reported.

The original quake Saturday was put at a magnitude of 6.6 by the U.S. Geological Survey and 7.0 by Chinese seismologists.

The death toll from the quake stands at 188, with more than 11,000 injured, Xinhua reported Monday, citing Sichuan's emergency response center. Twenty-five people are still missing, it said.

Chinese Premier Li Keqiang has visited the area. He spent Saturday in Lushan, directing the response near the quake's epicenter, Xinhua reported, then visited hospital patients Sunday.

Watch CCTV video from the earthquake that struck the southwestern Chinese province of Sichuan the past weekend.

A reporter in the middle of getting ready for her wedding left the make-up chair to cover the Sichuan quake.

