China working to restore post-quake order, infrastructure - Xinhua | English.news.cn

BEIJING, April 22 (Xinhua) -- Chinese authorities are working to restore social order and infrastructure in Ya'an of southwest China's Sichuan Province, badly hit by a strong earthquake on Saturday.

Firefighters started a fire prevention and control campaign at the settlement sites in the quake-hit areas on Monday, according to the Ministry of Public Security.

Police at the quake zone have also been asked to control traffic and maintain transport order so as to streamline the rescue and relief work.

Vice Minister of Public Security Huang Ming, who arrived in the quake-hit area on Sunday, ordered the police to ensure the safety of roads leading to and from the affected area and strengthen traffic diversion programs throughout the area.

In order to leave a clear path for quake relief personnel and materials, he told police to instruct people to avoid traveling to affected areas by car.

Heavy traffic jams have been reported on roads leading to Lushan County, the quake epicenter, since Sunday.

In a previous development, Chinese Vice Premier Wang Yang visited the affected city zone, neighboring townships, villages and broken roads in Lushan, extending the central government's sympathy and solicitude for quake victims and regards for rescue workers.

Wang convened a meeting with local grassroots officials, farmers, soldiers and volunteers late on Sunday night, urging them to check every village and house for trapped people and grasp the "golden time" of 72 hours after the quake to save as many people as possible.

Most school buildings in Ya'an are in good condition to reopen for classes, according to a statement from the China Earthquake Administration.

Also, radio and TV services are available at quake-hit areas with power supplies while technicians are busy repairing damaged facilities in the badly hit areas, according to the State General Administration of Press, Publication, Radio, Film and Television.

The death toll has risen to at least 188, with more than 11,000 others injured, in the quake that jolted Lushan County of Sichuan's Ya'an City at 8:02 a.m. Beijing time on Saturday. More than 1.5 million people have been affected by the disaster.

5.8-magnitude earthquake rocks Mexico

M5.8 earthquake rocks Mexico: SSM

5.8-magnitude earthquake rocks Mexico 

5.3-magnitude quake hits northeast China: CENC

7.0-magnitude earthquake hits SW China's Sichuan 

