India's Prime Minister Manmohan Singh has announced relief to the victims of the last night's earthquake, in which 48 people were killed and more than 100 injured.

North and Eastern parts of India affected by the Sikkim earthquake.

The 6.8 magnitude earthquake struck the state of Sikkim and its neighboring states. The Prime Minister has sanctioned an ex-gratia of 200,000 rupees each from the Prime Minister`s National Relief Fund to the next of kin of the persons deceased and 100,000 rupees each to those who were seriously injured in the earthquake.

The quake was followed by three more jolts, according to the Indian Meteorological Department.  These quakes measured 5.7, 5.1 and 4.6 in magnitude and were also felt as far away as Bangladesh.  Nepal and Tibet have also reported more than 15 deaths so far in the quake, besides considerable damage to buildings and roads.					

North and Eastern parts of India affected by the Sikkim earthquake.

"The earthquakes of the Strong tremors were also felt in parts of North and East India and parts of Bangladesh and Nepal, causing widespread panic. The epicenter of the quake is said to be just 64 km North-West of Gangtok," reports NDTV.

The NDRF personnel, including 20 doctors, were in the northern city of West Bengal Siliguri to help and rescue those who are trapped due to earthquake.

Sikkim's capital Gangtok went without power after the quake and even Darjeeling are in West Bengal was affected. Telephone lines have also snapped in some parts of Sikkim while phone lines are reported to have been congested in West Bengal.

Five Indian Air Force planes have also been pressed into action for relief operations. Small Army columns in Sikkim have also been mobilized following the earthquake.

The quake was the fourth this month.

The first quake in India was reported in Manipur's Ukhrul district on Sept. 4, and its intensity was 4.2. The second, on Sept. 7, was also of low 4.2 intensity in Haryana's Sonepat, sending tremors even in New Delhi.

