Congress general secretary Rahul Gandhi will visit the quake-hit Sikkim  on Wednesday to take stock of the rescue and relief efforts, a party  leader said.

In order to provide all possible support to quake affected people in  Sikkim, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday left by  road for Gangtok along with the Union Minister of State for Shipping,  Mukul Roy.

Sensing the gravity of the situation triggered by the cataclysmic  earthquake that unleashed havoc across the north and east India, the  Nitish Kumar government in Bihar has pulled up its socks to take  preventive measures to meet the challenges of the calamity.

The Centre has constituted an inter-Ministerial team to visit Sikkim to  take stock of the damage following Sunday’s devastating earthquake amid  fresh reports that 400 foreign tourists were stranded in worst-hit North  Sikkim.

A powerful earthquake with a 6.8 magnitude jolted Sikkim and several  areas of northeast and neighbouring Nepal on Sunday leaving at least 18  persons dead and over 100 injured besides causing extensive damage to  several buildings.

The national capital region (NCR) experienced earthquake for the second  time within a fortnight setting the alarm bells ringing among the denizens  and the geological experts alike.

Around 200 Army troops including a medical team have been sent to worst-affected Mangan district of the quake-stricken Sikkim.

Pointing to an increase in tectonic activities that escalate the chances  of more earthquakes in India, experts say the country's preparedness to  deal with the disasters seems to be missing. 'Nearly 60 percent of  India is prone to earthquake,' India Meteorological Department's  seismology department director BR Vaidya said.

            Tags: Recent earthquakes in India,  India’s preparation for earthquakes,  India not prepared for quakes says expert.

Battling landslides and torrential rains in quake-hit Sikkim, rescue  teams got into full swing on Monday as the death toll in the 6.8  magnitude temblor mounted to 72, including 41 in the Himalayan state.

