	India Earthquake: 6.8 Shaker Hits Sikkim, Near Nepal Border

                                                                A 6.8 earthquake shook northeastern India and Nepal today, killing at least 26 people, injuring scores and damaging buildings and sending lawmakers in Nepal's capital running into the streets, reports the BBC. The quake was felt across northeast India, including the capital of New Delhi. It triggered at least two aftershocks of magnitude 6.1 and 5.3, an Indian seismology official said. He warned that more aftershocks were possible.

                                                                The full extent of damage was not immediately known because the region is sparsely populated with many living in remote areas which were cut off by mudslides triggered by the quake, notes  AP . TV stations reported buildings collapsed and sidewalks cracked in Sikkim's state capital of Gangtok, 42 miles (68 kilometers) southeast of the quake's epicenter. The Indo-Tibetan Border Police said two of its buildings had collapsed in Gangtok.

                                                    A USGS map shows the 6.8 earthquake, which hit near Sikkim, India.

                If you are going to breathlessly report every 6.0 - 6.9 earthquake, you will be reporting them over 2 times a week - the average number of 6 earthquakes annually is 134.

                    (NEWSER) - Two earthquakes rattled buildings and killed one person in a landslide in southern Guatemala today, the Buenos Aires Herald reports. An initial 4.8 quake struck the sugar cane-growing area near Santa Rosa, followed by a 5.8 temblor about a half-hour later. "There is one dead in Cuilapa, Santa Rosa, due to a landslide caused by the quake. Another house in Santa Rosa collapsed as well," a volunteer fireman said. The quakes also rattled buildings in Guatemala City, 33 miles away. More»

                    (NEWSER) - At least 55 people are dead in India, Nepal, and Tibet after yesterday’s 6.9 magnitude earthquake , and the search for more survivors in remote Himalayan villages is being hampered by rain and landslides. "The situation doesn't look good," a UN official tells Reuters . "My feeling is the death toll and number of injured are going to increase." Helicopters could not fly over affected areas due to thick clouds, but some blocked mountain passes have reopened. More»

                    (NEWSER) - It's been a shaky day all around the globe: A 6.2 earthquake hit off Japan's coast today, and a 6.0 shaker also struck off Cuba's coast. No tsunami warnings have been issued in either location, and no injuries or damage have been reported. In Japan, cooling functions were still intact at the battered Fukushima Dai-ichi nuclear power plant. Meanwhile, in southern California, a 3.5 quake rattled Los Angeles and Orange County this morning, but no damage or injuries have been reported. More»

                    (AP) - A magnitude-6.4 earthquake struck today off the coast of British Colombia, the US Geological Survey said. The quake struck at 12:41pm PDT about 173 miles west of Vancouver. No immediate reports have damage have surfaced. "It's been felt pretty widely—we have reports of it being felt in Vancouver, Victoria, and even in Seattle," a USGS geophysicist tells the  Vancouver Sun . The quake shook buildings on Vancouver Island. More»

