Darjeeling – Sikkim Earthquake, 6.8 richter scale shakeBy Benoy on September 18, 2011 in darjeeling tea, darjeeling tea news 

Brief Darjeeling news update: Darjeeling and Sikkim along with the rest of North East India with some adjoining states experienced a 6.8 Richter Scale magnitude earthquake just about 2 hours ago. Sikkim being the epicenter of the earthquake (was 64-68 km away from Gangtok), Darjeeling hills experienced a strong shake. Till now we have news that 6 people have died in parts of Sikkim and in Nepal 9 casualties have been reported, but these are tentative news. Northern parts of Sikkim seems to have involved in greater damage.

Hoping for good news from all around from all areas affected by the earthquake. Keeping our fingers crossed!

It has been reported that a gigantic rock under the Kanchendzonga (also known as Mt. Kanchenjunga) belt measuring about 20 km moved southward in the now reported 6.9 richter scale Sikkim-Darjeeling earthquake. According to Supriyo Mirta, a seismologist, said, “The movement of rock associated with the 6.9 event on the western side of Sikkim is likely to have caused a pileup of strain toward its east leading to the two subsequent events” – the first earthquake was followed by 2 smaller earthquakes of 4.8 and 4.6 magnitude. It is believed that the Himalayan zone marks the zone where India is slipping below Tibet at about 18 mm per year. This tectonic plate movement seems to build up the stress causing such earthquakes.

The 6.9 Sikkim Earthquake is believed to have released energy which is 22 times the energy released by the atomic bomb dropped on Hiroshima or equivalent to 340000 tons of TNT. The earthquake’s exact epicenter is now revealed as “Mangan” in Sikkim which is about 66-68 km away from the capital of Sikkim, Gangtok. It has been reported locally that a volcano like eruption happened from the ground which sent some houses flying high above the ground.

Sikkim Earthquake death toll rises above 40 alone in Sikkim.

The death toll in the Sikkim Earthquake has risen: Till date, Sikkim has been the worst hit, specially North Sikkim, with Mangan and Chungthang being the main epicenter. Most of the Mangan area has been cut off; for example at Theeng nearly 200 meters of road has been swept off due to landslide and boulders falling apart – there is no existence of any road in the real sense and the army is forced to cut inside the hill to make way for traffic. The death toll may rise higher as not all of the quake hit areas have been surveyed so far as these areas are cut off. The army is on foot to such areas. Till date the death toll in Sikkim alone has gone above 50+. Major cause of deaths in the Sikkim seems to be boulders falling, landslides and house collapse. A lot of army stand points in Sikkim guarding the border areas seems to have been destroyed which includes deep burrowed bunker camps. This has been perceived by notable figures as a high risk on national security.

The Darjeeling earthquake paper reported to Kolkata by the DM of Darjeeling states a Darjeeling district wise loss of 3500 crores. It seems that 2800 houses in Darjeeling district has been totally destroyed with 52 thousand more houses sustaining damages to a certain extent.

Darjeeling – Sikkim Earthquake, 6.8 richter scale shake

Darjeeling – Sikkim Earthquake, 6.8 richter scale shake

