A massive earthquake hit Sichuan in southwestern China today morning, killing at least 157 people and injuring more than 5500 in a large mostly rural expanse.

The 7.0 magnitude quake caused widespread damage, flattening buildings, disrupting communication and water lines and

More than 70, 000 people had died in the province in an earthquake in 2008.

The worst hit area of Saturday’s quake was the Lushan county of Sichuan province where buildings crumbled into stacks of debris as tremors continued for nearly 20 seconds.

Landslides triggered by the quake blocked traffic and hampered rescue work as fire fighting s and emergency units attempted to reach the affected areas.

Residents help carry injured people to the hospital after an earthquake hit Ya'an City in Lushan County, southwest China's Sichuan province. (AFP PHOTO)

At least five drones were dispatched to capture images of quake-hit areas, the National Administration of Surveying, Mapping and Geo-information said.

Tragedy also struck during rescue efforts after a an army truck carrying 17 soldiers on way to the quake scene fell into a river while negotiating a damaged road; at least one soldier lost his life.

Residents rest outside damaged houses in Longmen township, an area very close to the epicenter of a shallow earthquake at magnitude 7.0 that hit the city of Ya'an, southwest China's Sichuan province. (CHINA OUT AFP PHOTO)

According to state-run Xinhua news agency, a 5.3-magnitude aftershock jolted the border areas between the counties of Lushan and Tianquan at about 11:34am, the strongest aftershock after the initial quake, according to the provincial seismological bureau.

Chinese Premier Li Keqiang reached Qionglai Airport in southwest China's Sichuan Province in the afternoon. He convened emergency meetings during his flight to direct quake-relief work.

A villager checks the condition of a damaged house in Banjarnegara, Central Java, on April 20, 2013, after an earthquake measuring 4.8 on the Richter scale caused by volcanic activity in the Dieng plateau. (AFP PHOTO)

"The current most urgent issue is grasping the first 24 hours after the quake's occurrence, the golden time for saving lives, to take scientific rescue measures and save peoples' lives," Li said.

Mamata sets up Rs. 500 cr fund for duped Saradha investorsDelhi rape: cop who offered bribe identified by fatherAfter incursion, China's helicopters violate Indian airspaceWomen invite harassment: MP Cong leaderTremors in Delhi as quake strikes Afghanistan

