Sichuan quake toll: 208 dead and missing













iPHONE APP | MOBILE | RSS FEED

LOGIN
REGISTER






NEWS


















Breaking News
News
Business
Singapore
Malaysia
Asia
World
Crime
Sports
Services
New Market
Specials



YourHealth

News
Body
Mind
Soul
Alternatives
Case Studies
Ask the Experts
Calorie checker
Weight loss calculator
Activity calculator


SoShiok

Where to eat
Critics' Choice
Recipes
Wine & Beverages


Tech

Hardware Zone
DigitalOne
All about Android


Edvantage

Schoops
Course Search
Features
Ask
Photos
Videos
Share


Plush

Luxury News
People & Personalities
Philanthropy
Art
Culture
Pics & Flicks
Big Toys
Trinkets
Chronometer
Connoisseur


Women

HerWorld Plus
Diva


Relax

News
Features
Your Tips
Your Photos & Videos
Galleries


Ride

Cars
Transport
Features
Motorsports
Showroom



Property



News




Showcase




Multimedia

Photos
Videos
Kiss92
HotFM91.3
UFM 100.3


Forum

Just talk
Crime
Sports
Regional
Contest
Helpdesk


















ASIAONE
NEWS
ASIA





Sichuan quake toll: 208 dead and missing



















































Rescuers carrying an elderly person from a collapsed building after a 7-magnitude quake hit Lushan last Saturday.




																Reuters
								Monday, Apr 22, 2013
							

When a light bulb hanging from the ceiling suddenly danced violently and bowls on the kitchen shelf smashed into pieces on the floor, Ms Chen Yuanyuan stumbled into the bedroom where her one-year-old daughter was still asleep.
“I realised immediately it was an earthquake,” Ms Chen, 23, said in Lushan county, Yaan city, in Sichuan province.
“All I was thinking of at the time was how to save my daughter, no matter what.” Holding her daughter firmly, she rushed with her husband into the street as the walls of her house cracked open.
“I (survived) the earthquake five years ago,” she said, referring to a devastating quake in Sichuan that left about 87,000 people dead or missing on May 12, 2008.
The epicentre – Wenchuan county – is about 200km from Yaan.
“It was like living through the nightmare again, except that this was worse,” she said.
The 7-magnitude earthquake hit Yaan city in south-western Sichuan province last Saturday morning.
Yesterday, the toll of the dead and missing from the country’s worst earthquake in three years climbed to 208, with almost 1,000 seriously injured. At press time, the Ministry of Civil Affairs put the number of dead at 184 and missing at 24.
Most of the deaths were concentrated in Lushan, a short drive up the valley from Yaan, but rescuers’ progress was hampered by the narrowness of the road and landslides, as well as government controls restricting access to avoid traffic jams.
President Xi Jinping pledged the full resources of the state to help in the search-and-rescue operation, according to Xinhua News Agency.
Premier Li Keqiang and other officials, including Vice-Premier Wang Yang, flew to the disaster zone five hours after the earthquake and arrived at Lushan to oversee rescue efforts.
Residents said buildings shook like jelly for more than two minutes. Fallen telephone wires resembled skipping ropes as the streets filled with people running out of buildings. Many did not even have time to dress fully.
Cries of anguish pierced the air as people shouted for their loved ones. Cars on the streets were crushed by falling debris from buildings.
Ms Chen and her husband wandered, dazed, on the rubble- strewn streets before they found shelter in a hospital.
People were afraid to enter their homes amid the aftershocks. Ms Zhu Ying, 33, said: “It seemed as if the buildings would fall at any minute. We dare not return to get our stuff.”
Relief work was hindered as roads were torn open or blocked by landslides, and telecom facilities were damaged badly.
A military vehicle carrying 17 soldiers rushing to the scenes plummeted over a cliff, killing two soldiers and injuring six others, Xinhua reported.














Become a fan on Facebook






















































LATEST NEWS



Australian media magnate banned from leaving Myanmar
Tokyo court to clarify blame in tour accident
Actors and crew pay tribute to Huang Wenyong at Star Awards
Forbidden City forbids smoking
Brazil's richest woman dead at 100: Reports
7 hospitalized as rough seas rock swim event
Samsung, LG urged to cooperate on OLED
Football: Suarez bite lands Liverpool in new controversy
MOE pre-schools: Why take-up falls short
Patients' financial pain eased by hospital charities









MOST READ




Request for help online turns ugly when trolls...
China's hottest female students
Australian tycoon poised to make S'pore his home
Rare sights of North Korea
Veteran actor Huang Wenyong has died
Samsung's Galaxy S4 launch in S'pore
20 top tips for flying with children
Baby dies after being severely burnt by heat pads
Explore little-known Amphawa, Thailand





LIFESTYLE




Asia's 50 Best Restaurants
China's prettiest uni student
Britain's most spoiled girl













































