Quake survivors desperate for aid - World News | IOL News | IOL.co.za










Sponsored Links:



IOL Travel


Personal Finance


IOL Lifestyle


Motoring


SciTech


My Pricing Guru


GQ


Glamour


IOL Dating























 



Truck driver killed in Germiston crash






 



Immunisation campaing for Joburg






 



Strikers ground most Lufthansa flights






 



UK blocks Shell paying Iran oil debt






 



Wall St dips as McDonald's







 




On the go?

Get IOL's cool new iPad app...



 



Loading










Home





News
Business
Sport
Motoring
Tonight
Lifestyle
Travel
SciTech
Blogs
Newspapers
Classifieds
Property
Jobs







Crime & Courts
Politics
South Africa
Africa
World
Opinion
Back Page
Special Features
Matric Results













Western Cape
Gauteng
Mpumalanga
Limpopo
Eastern Cape
North West
Northern Cape
KwaZulu-Natal
Free State






















Modimolle Monster page
Mining Crisis
Aids
Julius Malema
Nelson Mandela
Secrecy Bill
e-tolls
Mangaung


















Cadet Assignments
Cadet Articles












Quake survivors desperate for aid

        		  		            April 22 2013 at 11:27am 
                          By Gillian Wong
	          
Comment on this story








Reuters
A rescuer waits for the rest of his crew in front of a damaged building after Saturday's earthquake in Lingguan, in China's Sichuan province.


Related Stories

China scrabbles to find quake survivors
China quake death toll rises to 102
56 dead after quake hits China

Lushan, China - After using dynamite to clear landslide-blocked roads, Chinese relief crews hurried food, water and other supplies into the rural hills of China's Sichuan province on Monday, two days after an earthquake killed at least 188 people and injured more than 11 000. 
Rescuers reached the most cut-off communities in Baoxing and Lushan counties, though heavy machinery and trucks bearing supplies moved slowly along roads partly blocked by landslide debris. Repairmen hoisted ladders up against electrical poles to fix power lines. 
The delivery of relief supplies, while not enough to meet all the demand, marked headway as frustrations grew among survivors. 
Near an old house that had crumpled by the roadside in Lushan, about 2 000 people gathered early on Monday to complain about the lack of food. A few jumped on to a motorised three-wheel cart to look for officials, and 20 minutes later a truck pulled up and distributed instant noodles. At another street corner, a truck handed out bottled water. 
“We're so grateful for these donations,” said Ji Yanzi, who was loading cartons of bottled water on to a three-wheeled vehicle to take to her family of 10, including ageing parents. “At this point, we don't have much except a tent we made ourselves and some food we were able to pull out from our apartment.” 
Large parts of Lushan and other towns have been turned into makeshift encampments for people whose homes were damaged or destroyed by Saturday's quake or are too scared to stay indoors. 
The quake was among the deadliest China has seen in the past three years. The China Earthquake Administration said that 188 people had died, another 25 remain missing and more than 11 000 were injured. More than 2 000 aftershocks have rattled the area since the quake, the agency said. 
Sitting near chunks of concrete, bricks and a ripped orange sofa in the hard-hit Lushan village of Longmen, Luo Shiqiang told how his grandfather was just returning from feeding chickens when their house collapsed and crushed him to death. 
“We lost everything in such a short time,” the 20-year-old college student said on Sunday. His cousin was injured in the collapse, but other family members were spared because they were working in the fields. 
The quake, which the earthquake agency measured at magnitude-7 and the US Geological Survey put at 6.6., occurred farther to the south on the same fault line where a devastating 2008 quake killed more 90 000 people. Because Lushan and Baoxing were largely spared in 2008, they also had not benefited from the massive rebuilding efforts and its emphasis on earthquake safety. 
Luo said he wished more had been done to make his community's buildings quake-resistant. 
“Maybe the country's leaders really wanted to help us, but when it comes to the lower levels the officials don't carry it out,” he said. 
Relief teams flew in helicopters and blasted through landslides on Sunday to reach some of the most isolated communities, where rescuers in orange overalls led sniffer dogs through piles of  brick, concrete and wood debris to search for survivors. 
“I was working in the field when I heard the explosions of the earthquake, and I turned around and saw my house simply flatten in front of me,” said Fu Qiuyue, a 70-year-old farmer in Longmen. 
Fu sat with her husband, Ren Dehua, in a makeshift shelter of logs and a plastic sheet on a patch of grass near where a helicopter had parked to reach their community of terraced grain and vegetable fields. She said the collapse of the house had crushed eight pigs to death. 
“It was the scariest sound I have ever heard,” she said. 
The government mobilised thousands of soldiers and emergency personnel, sending excavators and other heavy machinery as well as tents, blankets and other emergency supplies. The Chinese Red Cross said it had deployed relief teams with food, water, medicine and rescue equipment to the disaster areas. 
As happens now after natural disasters, Chinese with cars were packing them with supplies and heading to the disaster area. The State Council, or Cabinet, issued a notice on Monday asking volunteers, tourists and others not trained as rescuers to stay out of the disaster area. 
At the Lushan county seat, tents have been set up on open spaces, and volunteers doled out noodles and boxed meals to survivors from stalls and the backs of vans. 
A large van with a convertible side served as a mobile bank with an ATM, military medical trucks provided X-rays for people with minor injuries, and military doctors administered basic first aid, applying iodine solution to cuts and examining bruises. 
Patients with minor ailments were lying in tents in the yard of the hospital, which was wrecked by the quake, with the most severely injured patients sent to the provincial capital. With a limited water supply and buildings inaccessible, sanitation is a problem for the survivors. 
One of the patients receiving care in the hospital's yard was the son of odd-job labourer Zhou Lin, 22. The baby boy was born a day before the quake struck. Zhou said he was relieved that his newborn son and wife were safe and healthy but was worried about his 60-year-old father and other relatives who have been unreachable in Baoxing. 
“I can't get through on the phone, so I don't know what's going on there and they don't know if we are all right,” he said. 
Every so often, an aftershock struck, shaking windows of buildings and sending murmurs through the crowds. - Sapa-AP 


































 




 


 
Comment Guidelines



Please read our comment guidelines.
Login and register, if you haven’ t already.
Write your comment in the block below and click (Post As)
Has a comment offended you? Hover your mouse over the comment and wait until a small triangle appears on the right-hand side. Click triangle () and select "Flag as inappropriate". Our moderators will take action if need be. 















Most Viewed






‘I killed Gasa for coming on to me’

Cops called me a whore, MP claims

Tsarnaev awaits charges under guard

SAA cancels East London flights

‘My sons were framed for bombing’

























Join us on









Services 



FREE Credit Report
Free Online Forex Trading
My Price Guru
Searching for Love and Friendship




Save up to 25% on your insurance: Dial Direct
Travel News
Property 









                                            Property



                                            Classifieds



                                            Motors




   









Whether you are a buyer or seller, wegotads is your online marketplace.  
Wegotads »


















Buying a car has never been easy. Motoring.co.za contains a large database of car listings with a user friendly search. 
Start searching today »































Business Directory























 Make sure you find the best available airfares with our easy-to-use search engine.



 













You are here:
IOL / 
News / 
World /  
	        Quake survivors desperate for aid 
    




We like to make your life easier






RSS feeds

Subscribe to one of our feeds and receive instant news.





Mobile
 Browse IOL on your phone at m.iol.co.za.





Newsletters
Subscribe to our  newsletters. News delivered to your inbox!


TwitterJoin us now

FacebookJoin us now






About IOL
Independent Group


Feedback
Contact Us


Advertising
Sitemap


Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy



 

 

 

 


© Copyright 1999 - 2012 Independent Online, a division of Independent Newspapers (Pty) Limited. The copyright in the literary and artistic works contained in this online news publication and its other related and connected websites, as well as in the published editions of group newspapers, their supplements and any other content or material, belongs exclusively to Independent Newspapers (Pty) Limited unless otherwise stated.

The reproduction of any content or material contained in this online news publication and its other related websites as well as the published editions of group newspapers and their supplements is expressly reserved to the publisher, Independent Newspapers (Pty) Limited, under Section 12(7) of the Copyright Act of 1978. Reliance on the information contained in the online news publications and other related content published on this website is done at your own risk and subject to our “terms and conditions”. Independent Newspapers (Pty) Limited has committed itself to The Press Code of Professional Practice which prescribes that news must be reported in a truthful, accurate, fair and balanced manner. If we don't live up to the Press Code please contact The Press Ombudsman 2nd Floor, 7 St David’s Park, St David’s Place, Parktown, 2193 or PO Box 47221, Parklands 2121 or email pressombudsman@ombudsman.org.za (www.ombudsman.org.za) or telephone  011 484 3612/8.









