China Rushes Relief After Sichuan Quake Kills 186





 




Insurance Journal
Insurance Journal  TV
Academy of Insurance
MyNewMarkets.com
Carrier Management










Featured Stories
$1.2M Oil Spill Claims FraudRussia Cracks Down on Illegal Building in ...Brakeless SUV Crashes in Upstate New YorkIBHS Research Facility Plans 


 





Front Page

National
International
Most Popular
Videos/Podcasts
Newsletters
Claims Education Guide


News

Most Popular
National
International
East
Midwest
South Central
Southeast
West


Topics

Adjusters
Fraud
Claims and Costs
Loss Control
More Topics


Magazines
Jobs
Events
Resources

Buyers Guide
Education Guide
Disaster Guide
Forensics Guide
All Guides
CE Requirements
Weather Map


Podcasts
Subscribe








China Rushes Relief After Sichuan Quake Kills 186

			By GILLIAN WONG | 						April 22, 2013 



Email This
Print
Newsletters



Tweet





Article
Comments


Luo Shiqiang sat near chunks of concrete, bricks and a ripped orange sofa and told how his grandfather was just returning from feeding chickens when their house collapsed and crushed him to death in this weekend’s powerful earthquake in southwestern China.
“We lost everything in such a short time,” the 20-year-old college student said Sunday. He said his cousin also was injured in the collapse, but that other members of his family were spared because they were out working in the fields of hard-hit Longmen village in Lushan county.
Saturday’s earthquake in Sichuan province killed at least 186 people, injured more than 11,000 and left nearly two dozen missing, mostly in the rural communities around Ya’an city, along the same fault line where a devastating quake to the north killed more than 90,000 people in Sichuan and neighboring areas five years ago in one of China’s worst natural disasters.
The Lushan and Baoxing counties hardest-hit on Saturday had escaped the worst of the damage in the 2008 quake, and residents there said they benefited little from the region’s rebuilding after the disaster, with no special reinforcements made or new evacuation procedures introduced in their remote communities.
Luo said he wished more had been done to make his community’s buildings quake-resistant. “Maybe the country’s leaders really wanted to help us, but when it comes to the lower levels the officials don’t carry it out,” he said.
Relief teams flew in helicopters and dynamited through landslides Sunday to reach some of the most isolated communities, where rescuers in orange overalls led sniffer dogs through piles of brick, concrete and wood debris to search for survivors.
Many residents complained that although emergency teams were quick to carry away bodies and search for survivors, they had so far done little to distribute aid. “No water, no shelter,” read a hand-written sign held up by children on a roadside in Longmen.
“I was working in the field when I heard the explosions of the earthquake, and I turned around and saw my house simply flatten in front of me,” said Fu Qiuyue, a 70-year-old rapeseed farmer in Longmen.
Fu sat with her husband, Ren Dehua, in a makeshift shelter of logs and a plastic sheet on a patch of grass near where a helicopter had parked to reach their community of terraced grain and vegetable fields. She said the collapse of the house had crushed eight pigs to death. “It was the scariest sound I have ever heard,” she said.
The quake – measured by China’s earthquake administration at magnitude 7.0 and by the U.S. Geological Survey at 6.6 – struck shortly after 8 a.m. on Saturday. Tens of thousands of people moved into tents or cars, unable to return home or too afraid to go back as aftershocks continued to jolt the region.
The quake killed at least 186 people, left 21 missing and injured 11,393, the official Xinhua News Agency quoted the provincial emergency command center as saying.
As in most natural disasters, the government mobilized thousands of soldiers and others, sending excavators and other heavy machinery as well as tents, blankets and other emergency supplies. Two soldiers died after their vehicle slid off a road and rolled down a cliff, state media reported.
The Chinese Red Cross said it had deployed relief teams with supplies of food, water, medicine and rescue equipment to the disaster areas.
Lushan, where the quake struck, lies where the fertile Sichuan plain meets foothills that eventually rise to the Tibetan plateau and sits atop the Longmenshan fault, where the 2008 quake struck.
The seat of Lushan county has been turned into a large refugee camp, with tents set up on open spaces, and volunteers doling out noodles and boxed meals to survivors from stalls and the backs of vans.
A large van with a convertible side served as a mobile bank with an ATM, military medical trucks provided X-rays for people with minor injuries, and military doctors administered basic first aid, applying iodine solution to cuts and examining bruises.
Patients with minor ailments were lying in tents in the yard of the local hospital, which was wrecked by the quake, with the most severely injured patients sent to the provincial capital. With a limited water supply and buildings inaccessible, sanitation is a problem for the survivors.
One of the patients receiving care in the hospital’s yard was the son of odd-job laborer Zhou Lin, 22. The baby boy was born a day before the quake struck. Zhou said he was relieved that his newborn son and wife were safe and healthy but was worried about his 60-year-old father and other relatives who have been unreachable in Baoxing.
“I can’t get through on the phone, so I don’t know what’s going on there and they don’t know if we are all right,” he said.
Every so often, an aftershock struck, shaking windows of buildings and sending murmurs through the crowds.
Copyright 2013 Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. 




Email This
Print
Newsletters



Tweet


 

Categories: International NewsTopics: China, earthquake aid, house collapse, quake resistant, Sichuan province 
Have a news tip? Email us at newsdesk@claimsjournal.com




« Previous articleFlorida Becomes 4th State to Sue BP Over Oil Spill
Next article »2 Iowa Men Arrested in Large-Scale Theft Sting







                Like this article?
            Subscribe to our free email newsletter.


 

Advertisers





See Comments (0)Add a Comment Cancel reply

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Name *
Email *
Website
Comment 




Notify me of comments via e-mail 



More NewsAuto Claims Satisfaction Declines as Out-of-Pocket Expenses RiseRussia Cracks Down on Illegal Building in SochiMarathon Officials Know Better Security DifficultLiability an Issue for Colorado Ski PatrolsTornado-Damaged Businesses Open Their Doors AgainStorms Contribute to Debris in Michigan WaterwaysResearchers Sound Alarm on the Role Fatigue Plays in CrashesPro Athletes Fight Limits on California Workers’ CompMore News Features




 
Sign up to get news!










Follow Claims Journal



 
Have a news tip? Tell us.

 
Claims Weather Map 
Current Issue 



Online Edition
Print Edition
Subscribe
Available on the iPad



Most Popular

Now
This Week
Commented
Woman Buys Home for $3,200, Gets $115K Settlement
State Farm Names Top Ten States With Most Hail Losses
Police: Upstate New York Man's Bad Idea Results in Crash
Boston Marathon Bomb Victims May Turn to BAA Insurance, Central Fund for Compensation
Former NFL Player Charged With Insurance FraudWoman Buys Home for $3,200, Gets $115K Settlement
Boston Marathon Bomb Victims May Turn to BAA Insurance, Central Fund for Compensation
State Farm Names Top Ten States With Most Hail Losses
Police: Upstate New York Man's Bad Idea Results in Crash
State by State Look at Driving Rules for Older DriversBoston Marathon Bomb Victims May Turn to BAA Insurance, Central Fund for CompensationApril 18, 2013 | Comments (4)Woman Buys Home for $3,200, Gets $115K SettlementApril 17, 2013 | Comments (3)New Jersey Will Buy Flood-Prone Homes in ’13April 18, 2013 | Comments (2)Georgia’s Arson-Sniffing Dog Dies After IllnessApril 18, 2013 | Comments (2)Plan for Cameras in Atlanta City Vehicles Raises ConcernsApril 17, 2013 | Comments (1)More Top StoriesPartner Center 





 
Reader Poll 
 
Insurance Journal Books  
 











Claims News

News by Region
News by Topic
Yesterday

Site Search

 



Features

Claims Jobs
Industry Events
Buyers Guide
Newswire



Connect with us

Email Newsletters
For Your Website
RSS Feeds
Twitter
Facebook
LinkedIn



Claims Journal

Submit News
Advertise
Subscribe
Contact Us
Link to Us

Wells Media Group Network

Insurance Journal
MyNewMarkets.com
Insurance Journal TV
Academy of Insurance
Carrier Management



© 2013 by Wells Media Group, Inc. Privacy Policy | Terms & Conditions | Site Map





















