Anna Nuclear Plant Forced To Vent Steam Following Power Failure From Virginia Earthquake








 











Alexander Higgins Blog 
The Latest Buzz, Analysis, and News Without the Snooze!
 


 
 





Home
Headlines
Authors
About
Subscribe, Friend or Follow
Advertise

 
 





  
 





Economy

Environment

Headlines

Health

Member Submitted

Projects

Society

Technology

The Alexander Higgins Show

Uncategorized

US

Videos

Web Development

World


 
 





Email Subscription
 


Comments
 


Posts
 
 
 
















 

Anna Nuclear Plant Forced To Vent Steam Following Power Failure From Virginia Earthquake





				  Posted by 
				Alexander Higgins				-
				August 24, 2011 at 2:44 am				-
				Permalink
				 - 
				Source
				 via
				Alexander Higgins Blog


 

 (1 votes, average: 5.00 out of 5)
 Loading ...


























Share






















Tweet






Tweet
The Anna nuclear power plant, hit by the Virginia Earthquake, was forced to release steam after losing electricity and a generator used to cool the plant failed.
Earlier today two of the nuclear power plants at the epicenter of today’s 5.9 earthquake were taken offline due to a power outage. The cooling functions at those plants were switched to run off emergency backup generators. 1 of the 4 generators failed within minutes despite an earlier NRC inspection and certification the generators were fit to use in the event of an emergency like today.

Backup Generator Cooling Nuclear Power Plant Shutdown By Virginia Quake Fails

The NRC is now reporting one of the four back up generators that has been shutdown at the epicenter of the 5.9 Virginia earthquake has failed.
There has been a series of unusual events at nuclear power plants across the nation from North Carolina to Virgina following today’s 5.9 earthquake that struck with an epicenter near Mineral, Virginia’s Anna nuclear power plant. The earthquake caused power outages at the Anna plant which forced workers to shutdown the reactors and switch to emergency backup generator’s to cool the nuclear fuel rods at the reactor. While the NRC supposedly tested and certified the safety and functionality at the nuclear plant following the Fukushima nuclear meltdown, the NRC is now reporting that one of the backup generators at the plant failed just moments after being started.
As reported earlier the media initially ignored reporting on the status of the Anna nuclear power plant near the epicenter of today’s Virgina earthquake.

Media Silent On Fate Of Anna Nuclear Plant At Epicenter Of 5.9 Mineral Virginia Earthquake

A massive 5.9 earthquake, the largest ever in recorded history, which has been felt across the U.S. from Colorado To Massachusetts, has an epicenter near Mineral Virginia’s Anna Nuclear Power Plant.
Read more…
Soon after the media began reporting on the status of plant saying the plants electrical power had been cut-off and the spent fuel pools at the reactors were being cooled by power supplied by emergency backup generators at the nuclear plant.

Two Nuclear Reactors Taken Offline, 9 Declare Unusual Events, After Virginia Earthquake

After raising the question on why the media was being silent on the fate of the Anna Virginia nuclear reactors we learn the earthquake has taken 9 nuclear plants offline.
Read more…
CNN is now reporting that, according the NRC one of the four emergency generators providing electricity to cool the reactors has failed. The generator failure even comes after the NRC reviewed them and said they were in ready working order following the nuclear meltdown at the Fukushima nuclear reactor in Japan.
[...]
Read The Rest
Now CNN reports that the nuclear power plant was forced to vent steam into the atmosphere, which I assume  was step needed to relieve pressure inside the overheating reactor to prevent a hydrogen explosion like the ones that occurred at the Fukushima nuclear reactor.
CNN reports on the release of steam from the Anna nuclear plant, in which they oddly quote  a county spokesperson instead of an official from the plant, or an official from the NRC.
The earthquake triggered the automatic shutdown of a nuclear power plant less than 20 miles from the epicenter after it lost electricity. The quake signaled “unusual events” at 12 other nuclear facilities across the East Coast and Michigan, U.S. authorities reported.
Dominion Virginia Power said both reactors at its North Anna plant shut down after the first tremors. [Louisa County spokeswoman Amanda] Reidelbach  said the plant vented steam, but there was no release of radioactive material. Dan Stoddard, senior vice president of nuclear operations for Dominion, said there was no damage to the spent fuel pool.
Officials were restoring full power to the site, which was operating on diesel generators. Stoddard said that might happen by late Tuesday, but that was before the evening aftershock. The Nuclear Regulatory Commission was monitoring the plant.
[...]
Source: CNN
CNN did not report on why was the plant forced to release steam when NRC officials reported the plant was in stable condition and operating normally on the back up generators.
Energy News posted the following photo of the reactor venting steam.
Venting Of Steam From Anna Nuclear Reactor Credit - WAVY

ABC News also reports on the incident with an interview with famed nuclear physicist Michio Kaku:

Sawyer: [...] When you have to go to the backup to the backup that doesn’t sound good.
Michio Kaku, Physicist: Not good at all. We just dodged a bullet on this one. There are 4 backup pumps, one of them is out… if all four go out then you are on the road to a full scale meltdown [...]
The  EPA radnet radiation monitors in the area, which display radiation data controlled and supplied by the government, has not  shown any radiation spikes in the areas surrounding the epicenter of the earthquake.
The original  Mineral Virginia earthquake has been followed by four aftershocks so far. Experts warn that aftershocks continued for weeks  following the 5.9 earthquake that hit nearby Blacksburg in 1897.
The following aftershocks have been officially reported by the USGS.
At 2:46:50 pm, a 2.8 magnitude aftershock was felt in Louisa. According to the USGS, the epicenter was five miles southwest of the Town of Mineral and approximately one mile from the center of the original earthquake (37.931°N, 77.935°W). Read the USGS report on the first aftershock here.
At 3:20:26 pm, a 2.2 magnitude aftershock was recorded approximately eight miles southwest of Mineral. Read the USGS report here.
At 8:04:36 pm, a 4.2 magnitude aftershock once again hit near the Town of Mineral. According to the USGS, the epicenter was approximately six miles south of Mineral along Route 522/Cross County Road (37.917°N, 77.891°W). You can find the USGS report on the strongest aftershock so far, here.
At 12:45:26 am Wednesday, a 3.4 magnitude aftershock was recorded seven miles south of Mineral (37.925°N, 77.994°W). It had a depth of three miles. Information on the fourth aftershock can be found here.
Here’s a recap of reported damages, injuries and disruption cited from the CNN article quoted above.
A strong earthquake in Virginia shut down a nearby nuclear power plant Tuesday afternoon and sent out seismic waves felt by millions from Georgia to northern New England. Three aftershocks were reported by Tuesday evening.
-No major injuries or extensive damage were reported after the 5.8-magnitude earthquake.
-The quake prompted evacuations of office buildings and the precautionary closing of monuments in the nation’s capital.
- A surge in calls by cell-phone users after the event affected service in many areas,
- Most federal buildings in Washington had reopened by late Tuesday afternoon
- The U.S. Capitol was cleared for employees to come back to get their belongings, for a limited time.
- Conflicting reports on Washington Monument leaning.
- Helicopter inspection initially reported monument structurally sound.
- Secondary inspection revealed cracking in the stones at the top of the monument.
- Washington Monument grounds reopened with 100 foot exclusion zone outside the plaza.
- The Lincoln and Jefferson memorials reopened Tuesday evening.
- Witnesses reported a number of buildings were evacuated as far away as North Carolina and New York/
- The quake, which was recorded at 1:51 p.m., was shallow — just 3.7 miles deep
- The magnitude was initially reported as 5.8, then revised to 5.9, and then revised again back to 5.8.
- Relatively minor damage in a few Virginia counties, including Louisa, nearest to the epicenter.
- Several school buildings had damage, as did town hall buildings, and an unspecified number of minor injuries reported in the Louisa county.
- Knocked down two chimneys at parcel-shipping business in Louisa county.
- A 5.9 event occurred in 1897 near Blacksburg which was followed by weeks of aftershocks
- Three 5- to 8-foot pinnacles broke from the central tower at Washington’s National Cathedral where other pieces that broke and fell on the surrounding lawn.
- Smithsonian Institution suffered cracks in interior walls
- The geography of the Eastern Seaboard, an underlying bedrock which is largely a solid sheet, helped transmit the shock from the Carolinas to New England.
- Eastern Seaboard geology causes a lot more travel out of earthquake waves than in California
- Shockwaves extended to downtown New York, where court buildings were evacuated.
- Quake felt across New York city but no reports of injuries and “virtually no reports of damage.”
- Quake felt on the island of Martha’s Vineyard, where President Barack Obama was playing golf, but Obama did not feel the earthquake
- Eearthquake slowed but didn’t halt major transportation services.
- Service at major airports initially disrupted by resumed normal operations 75 minutes after the earthquake struck.
- John F. Kennedy International Airport and Newark-Liberty International Airport, control towers were evacuated
- Amtrak resumed service between Washington and Baltimore at normal speeds following inspections.
  Related Posts
 

Backup Generator Cooling Nuclear Power Plant Shutdown By Virginia Quake Fails
The NRC is now reporting one of the four back up generators that has been shutdown at the epicenter of the 5.9 Virginia earthquake has failed.
There has been a series ...

READ MORE 

Officials Admit North Anna Fuel Bunker Damaged By Quake As Feds Launch Reactor Core Damage Inspection
The Feds have deployed an augmented inspection team to check the North Anna nuclear plant reactor core for damage as officials admit concealing the spent fuel bunker was damaged and ...

READ MORE 

Feds Allowing Tritium Radiation Catastrophe Cover Up At North Anna VA Nuclear Plant?
Nuclear industry watchdogs warn the North Anna nuclear plant may be leaking radioactive tritium due to damage in underground pipes from the Virginia earthquake.
On August 24th, a 5.8 earthquake struck ...

READ MORE 

Two Nuclear Reactors Taken Offline, 9 Declare Unusual Events, After Virginia Earthquake
After raising the question on why the media was being silent on the fate of the Anna Virginia nuclear reactors we learn the earthquake has taken 2 nuclear plants offline.




A ...

READ MORE 

Media Silent On Fate Of Anna Nuclear Plant At Epicenter Of 5.9 Mineral Virginia Earthquake
A massive 5.9 earthquake, the largest ever in recorded history, which has been felt across the U.S. from Colorado To Massachusetts,  has an epicenter near Mineral Virginia's Anna Nuclear Power ...

READ MORE 

Japan Witheld Nuclear Meltdown Simulation Showing 18,000 Deaths And 55 Mile Dead Zone
Japan Withheld A Nuclear Meltdown Simulation Showing 18,000 Deaths From Acute Radiation Poisoning And 55 Mile Uninhabitable Radius Do To Fears It Would Damage The Nuclear Industry

A report from The Asahi ...

READ MORE 

Head of Fukushima health study says 100 mSv/yr OK for pregnant moms
The Head of the Fukushima Health Study says that 100 millisieverts a year of radiation is safe even for pregnant mom and radiation effects do not come to happy people, ...

READ MORE 

Videos Of News Coverage Of The Mineral Virginia Earthquake
Videos of news coverage of the Mineral Virginia 5.9 earthquake with an epicenter near the Anna nuclear power plant.
Also, see these important related stories the media is burying.

Two Nuclear Reactors ...

READ MORE 

Scandal: Japan Arrests People For Collecting Radioactive Rubble While Claiming No Radiation In The Area
As Japan insisted Fukushima was not leaking radiation into the surrounding environment in March, the government was arresting people over 60 kilometers from Fukushima for collecting radioactive rubble without a ...

READ MORE 

TEPCO’s Darkest Secret – A Weak Earthquake Caused The Nuclear Meltdown Not The Tsunami
The Fukushima Daiichi Reactors Were in Meltdown After the Earthquake, But Before the Tsunami Hit.
Note: While the earthquake that caused the massive tsunami is now estimated to be 9.0 in ...

READ MORE 

Fukushima Nuclear Fuel Leaking Into Groundwater, Tepco Says Barrier Too Expensive, Will Hurt Stock Price
Japan is reporting that Fukushima nuclear fuel has burned through the containment vessel and is sitting on the concrete foundation of the plant leaking into the groundwater. TEPCO says an ...

READ MORE 

Scientific Experts: Fukushima Potentially Worse Than 20 Chernobyls – Governments Hiding The Truth
Nuclear expert Arnie Gundersen tells Al Jazeera that the Fukushima nuclear disaster is potentially worse than 20 Chernobyl disasters as a series of scientific experts join him in chorus saying ...

READ MORE 

Guardian: Leaked Emails Reveal Government Conspiracy To Downplay Fukushima Nuclear Disaster
The British newspaper The Guardian has obtained emails showing that government officials conspired with the nuclear industry to downplay and coverup the Fukushima nuclear disaster to prevent damage to the ...

READ MORE 

Fort Calhoun Nuclear Plant Underwater- References of 10 Mile Mandatory Evacuation Area Scrubbed From News Sites
The head of the NRC toured the Fort Calhoun Nuclear plant which is now underwater. A 10 mile evacuation around the plant has been ordered, but all references of the ...

READ MORE 

Flood Hits US Nuke Plant: Waters Breach Berm at Fort Calhoun Nuclear Station in Nebraska
Media outlets are now reporting, many hours after the fact, that the Fort Calhoun, Nebraska Nuclear Power plant has been flooded with water after a berm protecting the reactor was ...

READ MORE 

Japan Admits “Worse Than Meltdown” — Nuclear “Melt-Through” In 3 Reactors
Worse than Nuclear Meltdown - In a report prepared for the UN Japan says they believe that Fukushima fuel rods have melted through the bottom for three reactors.

The Montreal Gazette ...

READ MORE 

Backup Generator Cooling Nuclear Power Plant Shutdown By 

Officials Admit North Anna Fuel Bunker Damaged By 

Feds Allowing Tritium Radiation Catastrophe Cover Up At 

Two Nuclear Reactors Taken Offline, 9 Declare Unusual 

Media Silent On Fate Of Anna Nuclear Plant 

Japan Witheld Nuclear Meltdown Simulation Showing 18,000 Deaths 

Head of Fukushima health study says 100 mSv/yr 

Videos Of News Coverage Of The Mineral Virginia 

Scandal: Japan Arrests People For Collecting Radioactive Rubble 

TEPCO’s Darkest Secret – A Weak Earthquake Caused 

Fukushima Nuclear Fuel Leaking Into Groundwater, Tepco Says 

Scientific Experts: Fukushima Potentially Worse Than 20 Chernobyls 

Guardian: Leaked Emails Reveal Government Conspiracy To Downplay 

Fort Calhoun Nuclear Plant Underwater- References of 10 

Flood Hits US Nuke Plant: Waters Breach Berm 

Japan Admits “Worse Than Meltdown” — Nuclear “Melt-Through” 






Readers who viewed this page, also viewed: Police Severely Beat Man Half To Death For Bicycling Without Headlight Media Silent On Fate Of Anna Nuclear Plant At Epicenter Of 5.9 Mineral Virginia Earthquake Officials Admit North Anna Fuel Bunker Damaged By Quake As Feds Launch Reactor Core Damage Inspection Real Time EPA RadNet Japan Nuclear Radiation Monitoring For Every Major City In The Entire US On A Single Page 30,000 Rioters Will Lynch Journalists If Police Get Access To Raw Video Footage Feds Allowing Tritium Radiation Catastrophe Cover Up At North Anna VA Nuclear Plant?Related PostsBackup Generator Cooling Nuclear Power Plant Shutdown By Virginia Quake FailsOfficials Admit North Anna Fuel Bunker Damaged By Quake As Feds Launch Reactor Core Damage InspectionFeds Allowing Tritium Radiation Catastrophe Cover Up At North Anna VA Nuclear Plant?Two Nuclear Reactors Taken Offline, 9 Declare Unusual Events, After Virginia Earthquake Media Silent On Fate Of Anna Nuclear Plant At Epicenter Of 5.9 Mineral Virginia EarthquakeJapan Witheld Nuclear Meltdown Simulation Showing 18,000 Deaths And 55 Mile Dead ZoneHead of Fukushima health study says 100 mSv/yr OK for pregnant moms Videos Of News Coverage Of The Mineral Virginia EarthquakeScandal: Japan Arrests People For Collecting Radioactive Rubble While Claiming No Radiation In The AreaTEPCO’s Darkest Secret – A Weak Earthquake Caused The Nuclear Meltdown Not The TsunamiFukushima Nuclear Fuel Leaking Into Groundwater, Tepco Says Barrier Too Expensive, Will Hurt Stock PriceScientific Experts: Fukushima Potentially Worse Than 20 Chernobyls – Governments Hiding The TruthGuardian: Leaked Emails Reveal Government Conspiracy To Downplay Fukushima Nuclear DisasterFort Calhoun Nuclear Plant Underwater- References of 10 Mile Mandatory Evacuation Area Scrubbed From News Sites Flood Hits US Nuke Plant: Waters Breach Berm at Fort Calhoun Nuclear Station in NebraskaJapan Admits “Worse Than Meltdown” — Nuclear “Melt-Through” In 3 ReactorsPost Navigation:


Previous Post: NOAA Weather Alert: Conditions Rapidly Deteriorating As Hurricane Irene Approaches Bahamas 
Next Post: The Official 2001 FBI Docs On Urban Moving Systems And The 9-11-2001 Dancing Israelis Incident




 




					17 comments - What do you think?
	
						
			  Posted by
				Alexander Higgins								 - 
				 at 2:44 am			
Categories:
				Environment, Health, US, World			 Tags:
				atmosphere, authorities, automatic shutdown, backup generator, backup generators, diesel generator, diesel generators, earth quake, earthquake in virginia, east coast, electrical power, electricity, emergency, emergency backup, emergency generators, EPA, epicenter, evacuation, evacuations, explosion, fuel pools, fuel rod, fukushima, Fukushima nuclear meltdown, geology, Government, headlines, hydrogen, International, magnitude, magnitude earthquake, Michigan, mineral virginia, north anna, North Carolina, nrc inspection, nuclear, nuclear fuel, nuclear fuel rods, nuclear generating station, nuclear meltdown, nuclear plant, nuclear plants, Nuclear power, nuclear power plant, nuclear power plants, nuclear reactor, nuclear regulatory commission, Operation, plant shutdown, power outage, power outages, pressure, radiation, radiation monitor, radiation monitors, radioactive, radioactive material, reactor, reactors, senior vice president, source, spokesperson, Steam, town hall, tremors, virgina, Virginia, virginia earthquake, washington monument 


 




17 Responses to “Anna Nuclear Plant Forced To Vent Steam Following Power Failure From Virginia Earthquake”








 shannon lde says: 

			August 24, 2011 at 3:17 am 
Like or Dislike:  0  0I think we are OK on this one. I think they shut down plants in expectation and I Hope to God they continue. Nuclear shot is no joke. Plenty of energy from the sun wind and oceans.  E clean. Be responsible.

Reply 





povstanez - АЭС Вирджиния- идет дым из корпуса реактора says: 

			August 24, 2011 at 8:44 am 
Like or Dislike:  0  0[...] вот пошел дымокбольше инфы у Саши в блоге http://blog.alexanderhiggins.com/2011/08/24/anna-nuclear-plant-forced-vent-steam-power-failure-virgi…мира всем в эти временапока ничего не хочу говорить, [...]

Reply 





США в глазах форумчан (политика, общественная жизнь, мифы и реальность Часть 4 - Страница 23 - Компьютерный форум NoWa.cc) says: 

			August 24, 2011 at 9:40 am 
Like or Dislike:  0  0[...] 4     Остановленная вчера из-за землятресения в США АЭС сбросила пар. (линк) Есть проблемы с генераторами.    Ё моё…    [...]

Reply 





Антихрист's Friends says: 

			August 24, 2011 at 11:06 am 
Like or Dislike:  0  0[...] вот пошел дымокбольше инфы у Саши в блоге http://blog.alexanderhiggins.com/2011/08/24/anna-nuclear-plant-forced-vent-steam-power-failure-virgi…мира всем в эти временапока ничего не хочу говорить, [...]

Reply 





Friends says: 

			August 24, 2011 at 11:18 am 
Like or Dislike:  0  0[...] вот пошел дымокбольше инфы у Саши в блоге http://blog.alexanderhiggins.com/2011/08/24/anna-nuclear-plant-forced-vent-steam-power-failure-virgi…мира всем в эти временапока ничего не хочу говорить, [...]

Reply 





Facebook says: 

			August 24, 2011 at 2:34 pm 
Like or Dislike:  0  0[...] you're on the real Facebook web site. Also be sure to only download software from sites you trust.http://blog.alexanderhiggins.com/2011/08/24/anna-nuclear-plant-forced-vent-steam-power-failure-virgi…ContinueGo back to [...]

Reply 





Друзья says: 

			August 24, 2011 at 2:40 pm 
Like or Dislike:  0  0[...] вот пошел дымокбольше инфы у Саши в блоге http://blog.alexanderhiggins.com/2011/08/24/anna-nuclear-plant-forced-vent-steam-power-failure-virgi…мира всем в эти временапока ничего не хочу говорить, [...]

Reply 





Anna Nuclear Plant Forced To Vent Steam Following Power Failure From Virginia Earthquake : Truth is Contagious says: 

			August 25, 2011 at 12:08 am 
Like or Dislike:  0  0[...] Anna Nuclear Plant Forced To Vent Steam Following Power Failure From Virginia Earthquake Reposted from: http://blog.alexanderhiggins.com/2011/08/24/anna-nuclear-plant-forced-vent-steam-power-failure-virgi... [...]

Reply 





Zvědavec, rubrika Ve zkratce says: 

			August 25, 2011 at 1:10 am 
Like or Dislike:  0  0[...] Anna Nuclear Plant Forced To Vent Steam Following Power Failure From Virginia Earthquake [...]

Reply 





Twitted by Truth_is_Scary says: 

			August 25, 2011 at 6:09 am 
Like or Dislike:  0  0[...] This post was Twitted by Truth_is_Scary [...]

Reply 





 NobodysaysBOO says: 

			August 25, 2011 at 9:27 am 
Like or Dislike:  0  0WHAT FOOLS certified this generator some Mexican Janitor from ISREAL?
With America in a FULL DEPRESSION we STILL can not have our jobs back,and are forced to have INCOMPENTANT people doing this work that requires COMPENTANT EXPERIENCED PROFESSIONALS!

Reply 





Alarm !!! Nadciąga koszmar.NASA Video – Hurricane Irene Becomes Dangerous Major Hurricane – ‘Potential To Be Worst In Memory « Zenobiusz's Blog says: 

			August 25, 2011 at 11:20 am 
Like or Dislike:  0  0[...] MORE  Anna Nuclear Plant Forced To Vent Steam Following Power Failure From Virginia Earthquake The Anna nuclear power plant, hit by the Virginia Earthquake, was forced to release steam after [...]

Reply 





funny we were never told a thing about this in the news. says: 

			August 26, 2011 at 6:25 pm 
Like or Dislike:  0  0[...] Reply To This Post      http://blog.alexanderhiggins.com/2011/08/24/anna-nuclear-plant-forced-vent-steam-power-failure-virgi... [...]

Reply 





Feds Allowing Tritium Radiation Catastrophe Cover Up At North Anna VA Nuclear Plant? : says: 

			September 1, 2011 at 3:45 am 
Like or Dislike:  0  0[...] was leaked from the plant even as the plant operator admitted the next day that they were forced to vent steam from the reactor to prevent a Fukushima style “hydrogen” explosion at the [...]

Reply 





Feds Allowing Tritium Radiation Catastrophe Cover Up At North Anna VA Nuclear Plant? | Truth Frequency News says: 

			September 1, 2011 at 11:30 am 
Like or Dislike:  0  0[...] was leaked from the plant even as the plant operator admitted the next day that they were forced to vent steam from the reactor to prevent a Fukushima style “hydrogen” explosion at the [...]

Reply 





Feds Allowing Tritium Radiation Catastrophe Cover Up At North Anna VA Nuclear Plant? says: 

			September 2, 2011 at 12:13 am 
Like or Dislike:  0  0[...] no radiation was leaked from the plant even as the plant operator admitted the next day they were forced to vent steam from the reactor to prevent a Fukushima style “hydrogen” explosion at the reactor. While officials still asserted the plant was operating safely it begged the [...]

Reply 





Exposed Post: Anna Nuclear Plant Forced To Vent Steam Following Power Failure From Virginia Earthquake says: 

			September 5, 2011 at 10:51 am 
Like or Dislike:  0  0[...] Anna Nuclear Plant Forced To Vent Steam Following Power Failure From Virginia Earthquake                  Posted by Victor     on 8/24/2011 11:21:00 AM [...]

Reply 








Leave a Comment
Note: During times of high traffic your comment may take several minutes to appear. There is no need to double post.

Click here to cancel reply.



Name (required)

Mail (will not be published) (required)

Website









Notify me of followup comments via e-mail



 

 

 






Submit A Tip 



Submit a tip (You will remain anonymous).







Help Support This Site! 






 
 




 
 



Meta 
Register Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org
[Un]Subscribe to Posts

 
 



TEPCO And TBS JNN HD LIVE Fukushima Web Cam Feed Fukushima Nuclear Reactor Official TEPCO and TBS JNN HD Live Video Webcam Stream Feed

Real Time US Radiation Monitoring Updated With Real Time EPA RadNet Japan Nuclear Radiation Monitoring For Every Major City In The Entire US On A Single PageReal time US radiation monitoring of Japan nuclear radioactive fallout for major US west coast cities.

Alexander’s Featured Videos View All Of My Videos Here

 

Most Popular Recent Posts

Real Time EPA RadNet Japan Nuclear Radiation Monitoring For Every Major City In The Entire US On A... - 36,127 reads
Unbelievable! Court Rules US Taxpayers, Not BP Or Transocean, Are Liable For Gulf Oil Spill Clean Up... - 29,966 reads
TSA Police Beat Unsuspecting Girl At Airport Causing Brain Damage At Reagan National Airport - 25,745 reads
Flesh Eating Disease In Cocaine Found In New York, Los Angeles - Cocaine Supply Of Entire Nation May... - 23,103 reads
Greek Army Threatens Military Coup Sparking Fears of Military Uprisings And Civil Wars Breaking Out... - 20,825 reads
Real Time US Radiation Monitoring Of Japan Nuclear Radioactivity Fallout - 20,357 reads
Police Beating A 16 Year Old Girl Sparked London Riots Violence - 20,334 reads
Fort Calhoun Nuclear Plant Underwater- References of 10 Mile Mandatory Evacuation Area Scrubbed From... - 15,090 reads
Scientists Successfully Implant Chip That Controls The Brain Allowing Thoughts, Memory And Behavior... - 13,178 reads

Most Read Today

Police Severely Beat Man Half To Death For Bicycling Without Headlight - 520 reads
Feds Charge Man As Enemy Combatant Supporting Terrorism For Uploading Youtube Video - 418 reads
Feds Now "Duty-Bound To Confiscate" Silver And Gold Liberty Dollars As Illegal Contraband - 384 reads
Presenting Goldman Sachs Top Secret "The World Is Ending So Let's All Profit" Report - 326 reads
Facebook Pushing To Require Everyone's Online Activity Be Tracked By The Government - 256 reads
Real Time EPA RadNet Japan Nuclear Radiation Monitoring For Every Major City In The Entire US On A Single Page - 213 reads
#WikiLeaks - US, France Knew In 2007 Financial Collapse Was Imminent Due To Wall Street Fraud - 203 reads
France's CEREA - US Cesium Contamination Levels Exponentially Higher Than Parts Of Japan - 165 reads
Police Kill Autistic Man, Taser Mentally Disabled Man Holding Hands Up To Surrender - 102 reads


Search for:



Recent commentsCutting Through the Matrix With Alan Watt [06/13/2011] :: New World Order Blog on Physician and Epidemiologist Say 35% Spike in Infant Mortality in Northwest Cities Since Meltdown Might Be the Result of Fallout from FukushimaFeds Charge Man As Enemy Combatant Supporting Terrorism For Uploading Youtube Video - informationliberation on American College Student Gunned Down, Kidnapped and Tortured In Secret PrisonFeds Charge Man As Enemy Combatant Supporting Terrorism For Uploading Youtube Video - informationliberation on Obama orders targeted assassination of another U.S. citizen?10 Years After 9/11, Is America A Better Place? | Independent News Hub on Feds Charge Man As Enemy Combatant Supporting Terrorism For Uploading Youtube VideoObama’s DoJ: Constitutionalists, Survivalists Such As The Tea Party, Glen Beck, Sarah Palin And Ron Paul Are Potential Terrorists | Dprogram.net on Obama’s DoJ: Constitutionalists, Survivalists Such As The Tea Party, Glen Beck, Sarah Palin And Ron Paul Are Potential TerroristsFurther Reading
#WikiLeaks – US, France Knew In 2007 Financial Collapse Was Imminent Due To Wall Street Fraud
 
#WikiLeaks: Israel Warns Chemical Weapons Will Be Used Against Peaceful Palestine Protests
 
Police Kill Autistic Man, Taser Mentally Disabled Man Holding Hands Up To Surrender
 
Mega Disasters – Japan Great Earthquake 2011 Documentary
 
Epic Santelli Rant – The Real Spectacle Is Making Trillions In Debt And Robbing The Poor To Pay It Back
 
Police Severely Beat Man Half To Death For Bicycling Without Headlight
 
Feds Charge Man As Enemy Combatant Supporting Terrorism For Uploading Youtube Video
 
Presenting Goldman Sachs Top Secret “The World Is Ending So Let’s All Profit” Report
 
Feds Seek To Counter Imminent Bank Of America Collapse With Demand For Contigency Plans
 
Still Fucked 1 Year Later, Scientist Studying BP Gulf Oil Spill Impact Tells CNN

Browse Posts By Date
August 2011


M
T
W
T
F
S
S




« Jul
 
Sep »



1234567


891011121314


15161718192021


22232425262728


293031
 


Archives 
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
November 2009
July 2008

Latest twitter Posts Bring Out Your Dead  - UBS Quantifies Costs Of Euro Break Up, Warns Of Collapse Of Bankin... http://t.co/G5CP3BC via @kr3at headlines  Forget 'A Winter Of Discontent', Israel's Eisenberg Sees 'Winter Of Radical Islam' http://t.co/VhMmb9t via @kr3at headlines  Futures Re-Open...Down http://t.co/g03gSUC via @kr3at headlines  What Obama May Propose to Boost US Jobs, Economy http://t.co/0dtvxiT via @kr3at headlines  Guest Post: Unseemly Scramble For Libyaï¿½s Post-Gaddafi Oil Assets Underway http://t.co/rl3AnkF via @kr3at headlines  Watch The GOP Presidential Forum Live From South Carolina http://t.co/LBmWbK0 via @kr3at headlines  Bloomberg Ignores Major Stock Market Fall in Europe http://t.co/nvn6LNT via @kr3at headlines  BIG PIS: The CEO Of Europe's Most Troubled Bank, Dexia, Quits As Contagion Tsunami Sweeps... http://t.co/RJnD6zf via @kr3at headlines  To Celebrate Labor Day, Italian Unions Occupy Milan Stock Exchange http://t.co/dcMNZQb via @kr3at headlines  Feds say workers return to Gulf oil and gas jobs http://t.co/yUX8m5b via @kr3at headlines Feedjit Live Traffic Feed 
 
 


 






 

 
 
 





 

Copyright ©2010 Alexander Higgins  
 
 

 


 





 

















 
