	156 killed, 3,000 injured in deadly China quake - thenews.com.pk

YA’AN, China: More than 156 people were killed and 3,000 injured and a hundred had gone missing when a strong earthquake hit a mountainous part of southwestern China on Saturday, destroying thousands of homes and triggering landslides. The shallow earthquake struck Sichuan province on the edge of the Tibetan Plateau just after 8:00am, prompting a major rescue operation in the same area where 87,000 people were reported dead or missing in a massive quake in 2008. Twelve hours after the quake hit Lushan county in the city of Ya’an, the death toll stood at 152, the official Xinhua news agency reported, citing the China Earthquake Administration. At least 10,000 homes were destroyed, the Sichuan government said. Local seismologists registered the quake at magnitude 7.0 while the US Geological Survey gave it as 6.6. More than 260 aftershocks followed, the People’s Daily said on its website. The shaking was felt in the provincial capital Chengdu, which lies to the east, and even in the mega city of Chongqing several hundred kilometres away. Panicked residents fled into the streets, some of them still in their slippers and pyjamas. “Members of my family were woken up. They were lying in bed when the strong shaking began and the wardrobes began shaking strongly,” said a 43-year-old Chongqing resident surnamed Wang. “We grabbed our clothes and ran outside.” About 6,000 soldiers and police were heading to the area to help rescue work and five drones were sent to capture aerial images, Xinhua said. Some teams had to contend with roads blocked by debris, state television CCTV reported, while one military vehicle carrying 17 troops plummeted over a cliff, killing one soldier and injuring seven others, Xinhua said. “There are mountains on all sides, it is very easy to trigger mudslides and very dangerous,” one user wrote on Sina Weibo microblog site. The disaster evoked comparisons to the 2008 Sichuan quake, the country’s worst in decades, and President Xi Jinping ordered all-out efforts to minimise the casualties, Xinhua said. Premier Li Keqiang arrived in Sichuan in the afternoon and was taking a helicopter to the quake zone. “The current most urgent issue is grasping the first 24 hours since the quake’s occurrence, the golden time for saving lives,” he was quoted as saying. Amid the rescue efforts, a 30-year-old pregnant woman surnamed Zhao was pulled out of the rubble along with a young child and sent to hospital for treatment, the People’s Daily said on its Weibo account. A local TV journalist due to get married on Saturday turned up instead for work and a photograph of her holding a microphone in her wedding dress with bright makeup and a corsage was widely circulated online. Meanwhile Ya’an residents were offering to donate badly needed blood, the People’s Daily said. But volunteers outside the city were discouraged from flocking to Ya’an to help with relief efforts, Xinhua said, to avoid blocking already busy phone lines and worsening road congestion. “A fair amount of telecoms facilities have been damaged,” it said. Pandas at a reserve less than 50 kilometres from the epicentre were not harmed, Xinhua said, citing an employee. Residents ran onto the streets to get away from high rises, made phone calls and cried, a Sichuan government website reported. A few had even packed bags in case they needed to take shelter elsewhere. –AFP Our correspondent from Islamabad adds: President Asif Ali Zardari expressed profound grief and sorrow over the loss of precious lives due to the earthquake that struck southwestern Chinese province of Sichuan, killing dozens of people and injuring thousands of others. In his message, the president said that the entire Pakistani nation shares the sorrow and grief of their Chinese brethren at this hour of distress. He said that our hearts go out for those who have lost their dear ones and to those who have been affected by the earthquake. While expressing heartfelt condolences on behalf of the people, the Government of Pakistan and on his own behalf, he said that he was confident that the resilient Chinese people would deal with this natural calamity in keeping with their proud traditions. 

