A rescuer waits for the rest of his crew in front of a damaged building after Saturday's earthquake in Lingguan, in China's Sichuan province.

Lushan, China - After using dynamite to clear landslide-blocked roads, Chinese relief crews hurried food, water and other supplies into the rural hills of China's Sichuan province on Monday, two days after an earthquake killed at least 188 people and injured more than 11 000. 

Large parts of Lushan and other towns have been turned into makeshift encampments for people whose homes were damaged or destroyed by Saturday's quake or are too scared to stay indoors. 

The quake was among the deadliest China has seen in the past three years. The China Earthquake Administration said that 188 people had died, another 25 remain missing and more than 11 000 were injured. More than 2 000 aftershocks have rattled the area since the quake, the agency said. 

The quake, which the earthquake agency measured at magnitude-7 and the US Geological Survey put at 6.6., occurred farther to the south on the same fault line where a devastating 2008 quake killed more 90 000 people. Because Lushan and Baoxing were largely spared in 2008, they also had not benefited from the massive rebuilding efforts and its emphasis on earthquake safety. 

Luo said he wished more had been done to make his community's buildings quake-resistant. 

“I was working in the field when I heard the explosions of the earthquake, and I turned around and saw my house simply flatten in front of me,” said Fu Qiuyue, a 70-year-old farmer in Longmen. 

Patients with minor ailments were lying in tents in the yard of the hospital, which was wrecked by the quake, with the most severely injured patients sent to the provincial capital. With a limited water supply and buildings inaccessible, sanitation is a problem for the survivors. 

One of the patients receiving care in the hospital's yard was the son of odd-job labourer Zhou Lin, 22. The baby boy was born a day before the quake struck. Zhou said he was relieved that his newborn son and wife were safe and healthy but was worried about his 60-year-old father and other relatives who have been unreachable in Baoxing. 

