China quake survivor recalled 2008 terror as home shook - CNN.com

(CNN) -- It was early on Saturday when the residents of a small mountain town in the southern Chinese Province of Sichuan were shaken from their morning reverie by a powerful earthquake.

The town of Longmen found itself at the epicenter of the quake, which struck just after 8 a.m. local time catching most people unawares as they prepared for work and the day ahead.

Military medical officers carry a patient to an ambulance at the hospital in Ya'an, China, on Monday, April 22, three days after a 7.0-magnitude earthquake hit China's southwest Sichuan Province. The death toll is rising as rescue works scramble to find survivors and bodies.

Rescuers dig through rubble in quake-hit Qingren township in southwest China's Sichuan Province on Saturday, April 20.

This photo taken on a helicopter shows the quake-destroyed houses in Taiping Town in Ya'an City on Saturday.

Rescuers sit on ruins of a house in Longmen, an area close to the epicenter of the earthquake.

For Xiao, the tremor was particularly terrifying given her experience five years earlier when the same region was decimated by another earthquake that killed more than 87,000 people. She was pregnant with her son at the time, so when Saturday's quake hit she recalled how scared she was for her unborn child and feared for the worst this time around.

Though this weekend's earthquake was not as devastating as in 2008, a walk around Longmen and other similarly remote towns and villages in Lushan County attests to considerable suffering, with thousands of people left hungry and homeless amid a wrecked landscape.

"We need everything. We haven't had a proper meal or drank good water since the quake," said Luo Hongying, as a group of fellow residents, both old and young, huddled together in a makeshift shelter.

Watch CCTV video from the earthquake that struck the southwestern Chinese province of Sichuan the past weekend.

A reporter in the middle of getting ready for her wedding left the make-up chair to cover the Sichuan quake.

