A man walks past a Chinese national flag planted on debris one day after an earthquake hit Lushan county in southwestern China.

The Ya’an earthquake comes as China wrestles with slower-than-expected growth and the risk of rising inflation. But the early signs are that the impact on the economy is likely to be limited.

Ya’an itself is some 120 kilometers from the provincial capital Chengdu, with an economy centered on tourism, agriculture, and natural resources – including a panda research center that moved there after the 2008 Sichuan earthquake. Local GDP in 2011 was just 35 billion yuan, a fraction of the regional total, according to data provider CEIC.

Sichuan’s massive 2008 earthquake cratered growth in provincial industrial output to 3.6% year-on-year in May of that year from 24.6% in April. Even then, national output growth was largely unchanged, and by August Sichuan had recovered close to previous levels.

With the Ya’an earthquake on a smaller scale, the impact on output is likely to be smaller too. Industry in Ya’an itself appears to be limited, and so far there are few reports of consequences for firms elsewhere in the region Toyota Motor Corp.  stopped production at a plant in the province Saturday as a result of the quake, but said it would resume production Monday.

Another potential concern is higher inflation. China’s food prices are threatening to rise again, and Sichuan accounts for 4.9% of China’s agricultural land. A disruption to supply could raise bills for China’s households. Again, the lesson from the 2008 earthquake is that the impact is likely to be limited. Back then neither national nor provincial consumer prices registered an impact from the earthquake.

“We’re bullish on Sichuan’s economy,” said Alistair Thornton, regional economist at IHS. “They are the pathway to China’s fastest growing region and they will continue to benefit from that. The earthquake is a tragedy, but it’s difficult to see it pushing development off course for long.”

 Add a Comment  Error message        Name   We welcome thoughtful comments from readers. Please comply with our guidelines. Our blogs do not require the use of your real name.           Comment         Comments (5 of 19) View all Comments »       6:07 am April 23, 2013  Hidden Harmonies, Flagrant Fallacies wrote:              More evidence pug_ster should be delivering newspapers, not commenting on them: he ignores at least 2 other articles or posts in the Sichuan quake, looks at the sidebar on the economic fallout and claims the WSJ cares only about the economy. That’s rank dishonesty, pug.

