The search is continuing for survivors of a powerful earthquake in China's south-west that has killed nearly 180 people and injured around 7,000.The shallow earthquake struck Sichuan province just after 8:00am yesterday (local time), prompting a major rescue operation in the same area where 87,000 people were reported dead or missing in a massive quake in 2008.Local seismologists registered the quake at magnitude 7.0, while the US Geological Survey recorded it as 6.6. Chinese state media said the quake was followed by more than 840 aftershocks, putting the death toll at 179.

 The Sichuan government says at least 10,000 homes were destroyed and rescue workers are continuing to search for survivors.The towns of Longmen and Lushan have been badly hit with widespread destruction reported. The quake was felt in the provincial capital Chengdu, which lies to the east, and even in the megacity of Chongqing several hundred kilometres away.Panicked residents fled into the streets, some of them still in their slippers and pyjamas."Members of my family were woken up. They were lying in bed when the strong shaking began and the wardrobes began shaking strongly," a 43-year-old Chongqing resident said. "We grabbed our clothes and ran outside."

 Xia Donghai, 48, a migrant worker in the northern province of Heibei, rushed home to Lushan when his family failed to respond to his telephone calls after the earthquake."I am filled with terror, I do not know what I will find when I return to the family home," he told AFP.At Lushan People's Hospital, a steady stream of ambulances continued to arrive. Most victims were taken to tents erected in the grounds surrounding the hospital, where doctors treated the wounded.A 68-year-old woman with a broken arm spoke of the terror she experienced when the quake struck."It was as if the mountain was alive," she told AFP. "Now I have no home to go. I don't know what I am going to do."China's state-run Xinhua news agency says 6,000 soldiers and police have joined the rescue effort. Some teams had to contend with roads blocked by debris, state television CCTV reported, while one military vehicle carrying 17 troops plummeted over a cliff, killing one soldier and injuring seven others, Xinhua said.Rescue teams continued working as night fell, using audio, video and radar equipment as well as sniffer dogs to search for survivors, Xinhua reported.Firefighters had pulled 91 people alive from the rubble, the news agency said, citing the Ministry of Public Security.The disaster evoked comparisons to the 2008 Sichuan quake, the country's worst in decades.Chinese premier Li Keqiang arrived in Sichuan in the afternoon and took a helicopter to the quake zone. The first 24 hours was "the golden time for saving lives", he was quoted as saying.

 Child rescuedAmid the rescue efforts, a 30-year-old pregnant woman surnamed Zhao was pulled out of the rubble along with a young child and sent to hospital for treatment, the People's Daily said on its Weibo account.A local TV journalist due to get married on Saturday instead turned up for work and a photograph of her holding a microphone in her wedding dress with bright make-up and a corsage was widely circulated online.A two-year-old girl with heavy bandages wrapped around her bloodstained head was brought in as AFP watched doctors attend to her."Please. It hurts, don't take it off," she screamed as they began to peel her dressing.Meanwhile Ya'an residents were offering to donate badly needed blood, the People's Daily said.But volunteers outside the city were discouraged from flocking to Ya'an to help with relief efforts, Xinhua said, to avoid blocking already busy phone lines and worsening road congestion.The 2008 Sichuan quake, which struck west-northwest of Chengdu, generated an outpouring of support, with volunteers rushing to the scene to offer aid and then-premier Wen Jiabao also visiting.But there was public anger after the discovery that many schools fell while other buildings did not, creating suspicion of corruption and corner-cutting in construction.The deaths of the children became a sensitive and taboo subject in the heavily controlled domestic media and social media websites.Earthquakes frequently strike the country's south-west.In April 2010, a 6.9 magnitude quake killed about 2,700 people and injured 12,000 in a remote area of Qinghai province bordering the northwest of Sichuan.

       Rescuers sit on ruins of a house in Longmen township an area very close to the epicentre of the earthquake. (AFP)

