Strong quake hits southwestern China, killing at least 179 - CNN.com

A mother carries her baby through rubble in Lushan County in Sichuan, China, on Sunday, April 21. A 7.0-magnitude earthquake hit China's southwest Sichuan Province on April 20. At least 180 people have died and another 24 are missing.

Rescuers dig through rubble in quake-hit Qingren township in southwest China's Sichuan Province on Saturday, April 20.

This photo taken on a helicopter shows the quake-destroyed houses in Taiping Town in Ya'an City on Saturday.

Rescuers sit on ruins of a house in Longmen, an area close to the epicenter of the earthquake.

Hong Kong (CNN) -- A strong earthquake struck the southwestern Chinese province of Sichuan on Saturday, killing at least 179 people and injuring about 6,700 others in a region that suffered a catastrophic quake five years ago, the state-run Xinhua news agency reported Sunday.

Xu Mengjia, the Communist Party chief of Ya'an, the city that administers the area where the quake struck, told state broadcaster CCTV that because of landslides and disruption to communications, determining the total number of casualties may take some time.

The quake struck just after 8 a.m. local time Saturday, about 115 kilometers (70 miles) away from the provincial capital, Chengdu, at a depth of around 12 kilometers, according to the U.S. Geological Survey. There was conflicting information about the earthquake's strength, with the USGS putting the magnitude at 6.6 and the China Earthquake Networks Center gauging it at 7.0.

The event stirred memories of the devastating earthquake that hit Sichuan in 2008, killing more than 87,000 people.

First responders to Saturday's quake reported that the damage caused didn't appear to be as severe as what was seen in the aftermath of the 2008 disaster, according to CCTV.

"I thought it was my roommates shaking the bed," he said. "But the shock became stronger soon, and it came to me that an earthquake happened."

Residents of Chongqing, a sprawling metropolis more than 300 kilometers (about 190 miles) from Ya'an, said the quake also shook buildings there.

