Live report: 7.0-magnitude quake hits SW China's Sichuan

Live report: 7.0-magnitude quake hits SW China's Sichuan

Chinese authorities on Sunday ordered faster customs clearance of aid materials and timely transfer of foreign-currency donations to support relief work in the earthquake-hit region. Customs officials should set up special service windows to ensure 24-hour clearance of quake relief materials, the General Administration of Customs said in a statement.

The Organization Department of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee has earmarked 3 million yuan ($480,800) to the quake-stricken area. The money will be used for rescue work in the quake zone and relief for CPC members affected by the quake, the department said in a statement on Sunday.

The central Chinese government has allocated 1 billion yuan ($162 million) for disaster relief to the quake zones in Sichuan on Sunday, said the Ministry of Finance.

Sichuan provincial government held conference on Sunday to update damages in the Lushan April 20 earthquake. It said 2986 kilometers of road and 327 bridges damaged, 24 substations and 224 power lines destroyed 724 fixed and mobile communication base stations damaged Communication breakdown in 16 townships.

Military and civilian rescue teams are struggling to reach every household in Lushan and neighboring counties of southwest China's Sichuan Province, badly hit by Saturday's strong earthquake.

A helicopter carrying China Rescue members returned after experiencing unstable, strong turbulence on its way to quake-hit Baoxing county.

Ningkang Dam, damaged in the Ya'an earthquake, has been switched off due to the safety concern over national highway 318, causing water shortage to more than 10,000 residents in Quantian county, The Beijing News reported. Local authorities are laying pipelines to deliver water from the dam to residents.

A battery charger truck privided by Sichuan Electric Power Corporation offers free cell-phone charging services for people in quake-stricken Lushan county, Southwest China's Sichuan province, on April 21, 2013. [Photo/Xinhua]

An earthquake measuring 5.4 on the Richter scale jolted China's Sichuan province at 5:05 pm Sunday Beijing Time, according to the China Earthquake Networks Center. The quake was the largest aftershock since a deadly 7.0-magnititude quake hit Saturday morning.

China on Sunday thanked the international community for offering assistances following Saturday's devastating earthquake in Southwest China's Sichuan province.

"Considering the inconvenient traffic and telecommunications in quake zone, foreign rescue and medical teams and materials are not required now," Qin said, adding that China will make requests if needed.

Lu Jingkang lost her daughter from the Ya'an earthquake in Southwest China's Sichuan province on April 20, five years after she lost her son in the deadly Wenchuan earthquake.

Lu's 17-year-old daughter Yue Yushan died when the family's home collapsed during the 7.0-magnitude earthquake in Ya'an, Yangtze Evening News reported. Yue is an “understanding and clever girl”, said the 50-year-old mother. She would have taken the national college enrollment exam next year and dreamed of becoming an English teacher.

Light to moderate rain will sweep the country's quake-hit regions from Monday to Wednesday, China's meteorological authority forecast on Sunday.

Temperatures in the quake zone will see small fluctuations in the next few days to stay between 14 and 24 degrees Celsius, the NMC forecast.

The Ministry of Justice has ordered judiciary departments to ensure stability of prisons in areas ravaged by the 7.0-magnitude earthquake in southwest China's Sichuan Province.

The ministry has dispatched working groups to quake-hit areas to direct relief work in prisons and other correctional facilities.

Rescue forces have started a comprehensive relief operation in southwest China's Sichuan Province, which was hit by Saturday's strong earthquake, trying to reach every household.

Two medical teams of 20 members from Chengdu’s two hospitals will take helicopter to the quake-hit Baoxing county, which was inaccessible for damaged road.

Liming Water Plant in Lushan county, which was hit by a magnitude-7 earthquake on Saturday, resumed operation at 1 pm on Sunday, after two hours’ repair by 15 workers, making it the first water plant to resume water supply in the quake-hit areas, according to Sichuan Economics Daily. The water plant can provide water for 100,000 people in the county, the report said.

The Ministry of Foreign Affairs said domestic relief supplies are currently sufficient for the rescues in earthquake-stricken areas in Sichuan province on Sunday.

A woman was killed and a man injured in a mountain slide in Hanzhong, Shaanxi province, caused by the quake in Ya'an, Sichuan province.

The highway to Baoxing county, one of the badly-hit counties by the quake, was restored after 26 hours of repairing, People's Daily reproted citing Sichuan Provincial Transport Department.

Chinese Premier Li Keqiang returned to Beijing Sunday afternoon after visiting the earthquake-hit areas and deploying relief work.

A strong quake in Southwest China's Sichuan province has left 181 people dead and 24 missing up to date, the China Earthquake Administration (CEA) announced Sunday.

A woman donates blood for victims of Ya'an earthquake in Hangzhou, Zhejiang province, April 21, 2013. [Photo/Icpress]

