Unlike disasters of the economic kind, there is little that can be done to prevent earthquake damage, except maybe pray. AFP and PTI

 The recent earthquake in Sikkim brings to light, once again, the potential loss to countries. Not only are human lives lost, but the economic losses can be tremendous as well. The death toll from the Sikkim earthquake is reportedly at 80 at present, and counting. The loss to property and economy has not even begun to be estimated.

The magnitude of the Sikkim earthquake has restricted the overall damage, but natural disasters like earthquakes, tsunamis, hurricanes, floods can wipe out years of progress in a flash.

The Japanese earthquake and tsunami that occurred earlier in 2011 is expected to result in a loss of as much as $235 billion, or about 4.1 percent of the Japanese GDP. Japan’s economy might well contract this year as it copes with the losses of the natural disaster.

While the latest Japanese earthquake is reportedly the most expensive ever, other natural disasters in the recent past have caused substantial damage to life and property too.  For instance, the 1995 Kobe earthquake is estimated to have cost as much as $235 billion, or 1.9 percent of Japanese GDP.

A man stands in front of his house, which was damaged by the earthquake, at Mangan village Gangtok . Reuters

Of course, India is no stranger to natural disasters. The Bhuj earthquake, one of the major natural disasters in India in recent times, in 2001, is estimated to have had a death toll of 20,000 people and a loss of assets of as much as $2.1 billion on account of asset losses or direct damage alone, and another $2.3 billion in reconstruction costs to restore properties to their previous standards.

Unfortunately, unlike disasters of the economic kind, there is little that can be done to prevent earthquake damage, except maybe pray.

As the toll from the Sikkim quake rises, scientists say that it is also significant since it shows that the Indian landmass could be moving to the west as well as to the north. 

 A quake-hit dam can be a catastrophe of untold proportions. There have been seven draft bills so far but no Dams Safety Act in India. Are we serious?

