A 6.8 magnitude earthquake has been experienced in Kathmandu, Pokhara and other parts of the country. The earthquake occurred around 6.25 pm (this evening) and its reported that at least five people have been killed and several others have been injured. The epicentre of the earthquake is said to be somewhere along the Indo-Nepal border. Reported till now is of Magnitude 4.8  6.8 in SIKKIM, INDIA. Kathmandu, however experienced magnitude 6.8 on Richter Scale Earthquake.

 The National Seismologic Centre (NSC) in Kathmandu said that the quake was measured 6.8 on the Richter scale with its epicentre in the border region of Taplejung of Nepal and Sikkim of India.

The earthquake lasted for few seconds and people in Kathmandu are already full of panic.

 According to Metropolitan police in Kathmandu, three persons (two adults and a child), were killed in the earthquake. They were killed when a compound wall fell on the car they were traveling at Laichchaur, Kathmandu.

 The Home Ministry came up with a statement saying the earthquake destroyed around 58 houses across the nation with 10 in the capital. 

The Earthquake also interrupted the ongoing House session of CA in Kathmandu. Seen in the image below are Lawmakers outside the CA building in Kathmandu. (Photo: Bhaswor Ojha)

omg..it a tragic situation in our country,nepal as well as india.i hope there are no more casualties.rip,all the victims of this recent earthquake,may god bless their soul.

[...] Nepali Blogger on the quake, English. – Bhumikasa Nepal Blogs [...]

[...] yesterday. In addition more than 50 injuries and 168 house damages have been reported due to the earthquake of magnitude 6.9 (previously 6.8 and later revised to that figure) on Richter scale that had its epicenter in the [...]

[...] Sunday evening of September 18, 2011 Nepal experienced a strong earthquake measuring 6.8 on the Richter scale that had its epicentre in the border region of Taplejung of [...]

[...] the Sunday evening of September 18, 2011,Â Nepal experienced a strong earthquake measuring 6.8 on the Richter scale. With an epicentre in the border region of Taplejung of Nepal [...]

Nepal: Bloggers Share Their Own Stories of Earthquake :: Elites TV: [...] the Sunday evening of September 18, 2011,Â N...

Nepal: Bloggers Share Their Own Stories Of Earthquake · Global Voices: [...] Sunday evening of September 18, 2011 Nepal e...

