This aerial photo released by China's Xinhua news agency shows destroyed houses after a powerful earthquake hit  Lushan county in Ya'an on Saturday. 

BEIJING—A strong earthquake in southwestern China on Saturday killed at least 160 people and injured thousands more, officials said, in a disaster that struck the same province as a 2008 quake that killed some 80,000 people.

Saturday's earthquake hit China's southwestern Sichuan province—in Lushan county near the city of Ya'an—just after 8 a.m. with a magnitude of 7.0, according to the China Earthquakes Network Center. The U.S. Geological Survey put the magnitude of the quake at 6.6, downgraded from an initial reading of 6.9.

"My first response was 'I am going to die,' " said Li Zhizhu, one of a group of university students from the provincial capital of Chengdu who were traveling in the countryside outside Ya'an. He said he was asleep in a lodge when the quake struck and woke to see tiles falling from the ceiling. "It was very scary. There were aftershocks every few minutes. We had no phone reception and people were crying."

Rescue workers pull survivors from the rubble after an earthquake struck China's southwestern Sichuan province. Photo: Getty Images. 

Chinese Premier Li Keqiang arrived in the quake-struck area Saturday afternoon, state media said. "The current most urgent issue is grasping the first 24 hours since the quake's occurrence, the golden time for saving lives, to take scientific rescue measures and save peoples' lives," state media quoted Mr. Li as saying.

The quake caused houses to collapse along a street in Ya'an and sent rocks tumbling into vehicles, Xinhua said, adding that patients were being treated on the ground in front of the Lushan County Hospital. People reported feeling tremors in the provincial capital of Chengdu, 70 miles to the northeast.

Ya'an has a population of 1.5 million and is home to a giant panda breeding center. The pandas housed in Ya'an include 40 that were moved there after the 2008 quake damaged the main panda research base in Wolong.

Saturday's quake rekindled memories of the 2008 earthquake, which measured 7.9 and ranks among the most destructive natural disasters in recent Chinese history. Farmers alone suffered an estimated $6 billion in damage. China's response at the time was widely criticized as soldiers and rescue workers struggled to reach the worst-hit areas. Accusations of fraud in the handling of donations by the Red Cross Society of China and allegations of attempts to suppress information about the widespread collapse of school buildings also marred the government's reputation in the wake of the disaster.

Photos posted online by semi-official China News Service showed hundreds of residents gathered in the streets after the quake, some clothed in pajamas or wrapped in bedding. Other images showed collapsed buildings, streets littered with debris and groups of people, many of them elderly, being treated in mobile medical tents.

The student, Mr. Li, said he and the other students were initially trapped in the mountains after the quake caused a bridge to collapse, but they were on their way back to Chengdu after their university sent shuttles to pick them up. The 20-year-old said he experienced the 2008 quake while a middle school student in Chengdu, but that Saturday was different because of his proximity to the epicenter.

Xiong Gang, a government worker in Lushan county, said that when the quake struck he was sleeping in his sixth-floor apartment with his wife and child, and he immediately hid them in the bathroom. Now his wife and child are staying with his grandfather, who lives in a wooden house, he said. He said as of Saturday night he saw helicopters and military personnel working on the streets while volunteers brought drinking water and food.

Saturday's quake occurred along the Longmenshan fault line, which was also the source the 2008 quake, according to the U.S. Geological Survey. The China Earthquake Networks Center said it had recorded 264 aftershocks, two of which topped 5.0 in magnitude, since the original quake struck.

              BEIJING—A strong earthquake in southwestern China on Saturday killed at least 160 people and injured thousands more, officials said, in a disaster that struck the same province as a 2008 quake that killed some 80,000 people.  Saturday's earthquake hit China's southwestern Sichuan province—in Lushan county near the city of Ya'an—just after 8 a.m. with a magnitude of 7.0, according to the China Earthquakes Network Center. The U.S. Geological Survey put the magnitude of the quake at 6.6, downgraded from an initial reading of 6.9. "My first response was 'I am going to die,' " said Li Zhizhu, one of a ...Continue reading article with pop up player

